Scene Action: [Open to Morty’s room]
 Rick: (stumbles in drunkenly, and turns on the lights) Morty! You gotta come on. Jus'... you gotta come with me.
 Morty: (rubs his eyes) What, Rick? What’s going on?
 Rick: I got a surprise for you, Morty.
 Morty: It's the middle of the night. What are you talking about?
 Rick: (spills alcohol on Morty's bed) Come on, I got a surprise for you. (drags Morty by the ankle) Come on, hurry up. (pulls Morty out of his bed and into the hall)
 Morty: Ow! Ow! You're tugging me too hard!
 Rick: We gotta go, gotta get outta here, come on. Got a surprise for you Morty.
Scene Action:  [Cut to Rick's ship]
 Rick: (Rick drives through the night sky) What do you think of this... flying vehicle, Morty? I built it outta stuff I found in the garage.
 Morty: Yeah, Rick... I-it's great. Is this the surprise?
 Rick: Morty. I had to... I had to do it. I had— I had to— I had to make a bomb, Morty. I had to create a bomb.
 Morty: What?! A bomb?!
 Rick: We're gonna drop it down there just get a whole fresh start, Morty. Create a whole fresh start.
 Morty: T-t-that's absolutely crazy!
 Rick: Come on, Morty. Just take it easy, Morty. It's gonna be good. Right now, we're gonna go pick up your little friend Jessica.
 Morty: Jessica? From my math class?
 Rick: (puts an arm around Morty’s shoulders) When I drop the bomb you know, I want you to have somebody, you know? I want you to have the thing. I'm gonna make it like a new Adam and Eve, and you're gonna be Adam.
 Morty: Ohh...
 Rick: And Jessica's gonna be Eve.
 Morty: Whhhh-wha?
 Rick: And so that's the surprise, Morty.
 Morty: No, you can't! (shoves Rick away) Jessica doesn't even know I exist! But—but, but forget about that, because you can't blow up humanity!
 Rick: I-I get what you're trying to say, Morty. Listen, I'm not... (spills alcohol down his shirt) You don't got... Y-you don’t gotta worry about me trying to fool around with Jessica or mess around with Jessica or anything. I'm not that kind of guy, Morty.
 Morty: What are you talking about, Rick?
 Rick: You-you don't have to worry about me getting with Jessica or anything. Sh-sh-she— she, she, she's all for you, Morty.
 Morty: I don't care about Jessica! Y-Yyyyyyyyyyou—
 Rick: You know what, Morty? You're right. (throws empty bottle into the backseat) Let's forget the girl altogether. She, she's probably nothing but trouble, anyways. (presses a button)
 Robot Voice: Arming neutrino bomb.
 Morty: (unbuckles his seatbelt) That's it... that's it, Rick. I'm taking the wheel. (jumps up on Rick and starts fighting with him over control of the wheel)
 Rick: Get off of me, Morty! (they begin to talk over each other)
 Morty: I'm taking charge of this situation, buddy! (starts kicking Rick's face while grabbing the wheel) I'm put—I’m, I'm, I'm, I'm puttin’... I-I’m, I’m, I’m not gonna stand around like some sort of dumb... dumb person and just le-let you ruin the whole world!
 Rick: (at the same time) Come on! What’s gotten into you? If you love Earth so much why don’t you marry it? (pushes Morty) What are you, crazy? Alright, alright, Morty. (pushes Morty off of him)
 Rick: Alright. I'll-I'll land. I'll land. I'll land. I'll land the thing. I’ll land the thing. Big tough guy all of a sudden.
Scene Action:  [Cut to desert]
 Rick: (Rick lands the cruiser in an open desert; he opens the door and tumbles out among dozens of empty alcohol cans and bottles) We'll park it right here, Morty. Right here on the side of the ree... road here.
 Morty: Oh, thank god.
 Rick: You know what? That was all a test, Morty. Just an elaborate test to make you more assertive.
 Morty: It was?
 Rick: Sure. Why not? I don’t, I don't know. Y-you know what, Mo— (falls asleep and begins snoring)
 Robot Voice: Neutrino bomb armed.
 Morty: Um...
Scene Action:  [Cut to opening theme]
Scene Action:  [Open to Smith residence, dining room]
 Jerry: I see there's a new episode of that singing show tonight. Who do you guys think is gonna be the best singer? (Morty falls asleep at the table, smashing his face into his plate)
 Summer: Oh my God, his head is in his food. I'm going to puke.
 Beth: Morty, are you getting sick? (Morty lifts his head, clearly exhausted,
Scene Action:  and wipes food from his face) I told you not to practice-kiss the living room
Scene Action:  pillow. The dog sleeps on it.
 Morty: I wasn't kissing a pillow, mom. I just I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. Maybe my dreams were just too loud or something.
 Summer: Or maybe you were out all night again with Grandpa Rick.
 Jerry: What?
 Beth: Dad?
 Rick: What, so everyone's supposed to sleep every single night now? You realize that nighttime makes up half of all time?
 Jerry: Damn it!
 Beth: Jerry!
 Jerry: Beth!
 Summer: Oh my god, my parents are so loud, I want to die.
 Rick: Mm, there is no God, Summer. You gotta rip that band-aid off now. You'll thank me later.
 Jerry: (glaring at Rick) Okay, with all due respect, Rick— what am I talking about? What respect is due? How is my son supposed to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-concept Sci-Fi rigamarole?
 Rick: Listen, Jerry. I-I-I don't want to overstep my bounds or anything. It's your house. It's your world. You're a real Julius Caesar but I'll tell you something—tell you how I feel about school, Jerry. It's a waste of time. (Jerry stares incredulously at him) Buncha people running around, bumping into each other. G-guy up front says, "two plus two." The people in the back say, "four." Then the—then the bell rings, and they give you a carton of milk and a piece of paper that says you can go take a dump or something. I mean, it's not a place for smart people, Jerry. And I know that's not a popular opinion, but it's my two cents on the issue. (wipes his mouth and gets up, stopping behind Beth and putting a hand on her shoulder) This was a good breakfast, Beth. You really made the crap out of those eggs. I wish your mother was here to eat them. (Rick gives Beth a kiss and walks away)
 Beth: (tears up in happiness) Oh, dad…
 Jerry: What? For real? (Morty's face slams into his plate again)
Scene Action:  [Cut to Ext. Harry Herpson High School]
 Mr. Goldenfold: Alright, now, everybody get settled. Get away from the windows!
Scene Action:  [Cut to Int. Mr. Goldenfold’s class]
 Mr. Goldenfold: Now, look, we're gonna be dealing with some real serious stuff today. You might have heard of it. It's called math? And without it, none of us would even exist, so let's jump right in. Two plus two.
 All classmates except Morty: Four. (Morty, sitting in the back row, stares at Jessica, who sits in the front row, answering Jessica’s name for the questions)
 Morty: Jessica.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Five plus five.
 All classmates except Morty: Ten.
 Morty: Jessica. (Jessica hears Morty and looks back, confused, not sure who’s saying her name)
 Mr. Goldenfold: Okay, good. It's time for the quiz.
 Class: Awwwwww.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Yeah, you know what?! Aw, too bad! Tough! First row, take one. Pass it back for me. The stakes are high in this room. (Morty stares at the quiz; the numbers on the quiz jumble together as Morty falls asleep) There's crucial things happening here every day. People getting smarter. Some of y'all getting dumber. Some of y'all ain't gonna see 3:00. (Morty falls into a dream world filled with large number-shaped blocks; Jessica steps out from behind some of the numbers)
 Jessica: Hi, Morty.
 Morty: Whoa! Hi, Jessica.
 Jessica: Can I show these to you? (Jessica opens her shirt, showing Morty her breasts)
 Morty: Wow. Th-they're both great. Thank you!
 Jessica: You know what I named these? My little Morties.
 Morty: (rubs the back of his neck) Uh, that's flattering... and a little weird.
 Jessica: Do you know what I want you to do with them?
 Morty: Rename them?
 Jessica: Squeeze them. Manhandle them. Give them the business. See if you can shuffle them. I mean, really get in there and knock them around. No wrong answers.
 Morty: Wow. Well, okay, Jessica. L-let's give this a shot. (Morty grabs her breasts and starts fondling her)
 Jessica: Mm. Oh, Morty. What are you doing to me?
 Morty: Uh, I-I'm just doing my best. (in real life, class has ended and Morty is fondling Mr. Goldenfold)
 Mr. Goldenfold: Morty! What are you doing to me?!
 Morty: (sleep-talking) Ah, Jessica.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Morty!
 Morty: Jessica.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Five more minutes of this, and I'm gonna get mad. (leans back and bites his lip)
 Morty: Je-Jessica. Jessica.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Not my fault this is happening.
Scene Action:  [Cut to hallway]
 Frank: (Morty is at his locker, where he is confronted by a bully, Frank Palicky) Well, well, well.
 Morty: Uh, morning, Frank.
 Frank: (pins Morty to his locker) "Morning"? What was what is that supposed to mean? You making fun of me? Are you trying to say my family's poor? (takes out a pocket knife and points it at Morty's neck)
 Morty: Oh, geez, Frank. I don't know if a knife is necessary. I mean, you know, y-you kind of had things handled without it.
 Frank: You telling me how to bully now? Big mistake, Morty and now I'm gonna cut you, 'cause my family's rich. (Frank suddenly freezes and Rick steps out from behind him)
 Rick: There you are, Morty. Listen to me. I got an errand to run in a whole different dimension. I need an extra pair of hands.
 Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. W-w-what'd you do to Frank?
 Rick: It's pretty obvious, Morty. I froze him. Now listen I need your help, Morty. I mean, we got we got to get get the hell out of here and go take care of business. (burps) It's important. Come on, Morty.
 Morty: I don't know, Rick. I can't leave school again.
 Rick: Do you have any concept of how much higher the stakes get out there, Morty? What do you think I can just do it all by myself? Come on!
 Morty: Aw, geez. Okay. I guess I can skip history. What about Frank? I mean, shouldn't you unfreeze him?
 Rick: I'll do it later, Morty. He'll be fine. Let's go. (takes off with Morty and then Summer comes by, seeing Frank's frozen body)
 Summer : Oh, my God. I'm about to walk past Frank Palicky. This is the story we'll be telling our children. (walks up to Frank and talks to him, oblivious to the fact that he's frozen)
 Summer: Hi, Frank. (Frank's frozen foot breaks and he drops to the ground and shatters into a million pieces, dying)
 Summer: AAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!
Scene Action:  [Cut to horse hospital]
 Beth: (performing heart surgery on a horse) Scalpel.
 Davin: Scalpel. (Jerry enters the room)
 Jerry: Knock, knock.
 Beth: Jerry?
 Jerry: My manager gave me an hour for lunch, and I thought, "hey, why not swing by where your wife works?" (The heart rate for the horse starts beeping really fast)
 Tom: (offscreen) We're losing him. (Beth adjusts the horse's organs)
 Tom: (offscreen) Okay, he's back.
 Beth: Jerry, please tell me you're here for an incredibly urgent reason.
 Jerry: Well, it's lunch. I mean, it's one of three meals that have existed for millennia. (the heart rate starts beeping again)
 Tom: (offscreen) Losing him. (Beth adjusts the organs again)
 Tom: (offscreen) Stabilized.
 Beth: Okay, I only ask, Jerry, because, as you know, my job involves performing heart surgery.
 Jerry: Well, yeah, on horses.
 Beth: Excuse me?
 Jerry: Okay, Let's not rehash that fight. I sense that you're busy and will now be on my way. (drops a pamphlet on the ground)
 Jerry: Whoa! What is this on the floor? Some kind of literature for a really nice-looking nursing home. Hey, honey, crazy idea bad pitch let's put your dad here. Let's put your dad in a nursing home. (Beth looks at Jerry angrily and the heart hate starts beeping again)
 Tom: (offscreen) We're losing him.
 Beth: Hey, Tom! We know when we're losing him. WE CAN HEAR THE BEEPS!
Scene Action:  [Cut to alleyway]
 Rick: There she is. All right. Come on, Morty. Let's go.
 Morty: Oh, geez, okay. (Rick and Morty go through the portal and end up in a crazy alternate dimension)
 Morty: Oh, man, Rick. What is this place?
 Rick: It's Dimension 35-C, and it's got the perfect climate conditions for a special type of tree, Morty, called a Mega Tree, and there's fruit in those trees, and there's seeds in those fruits. I'm talking about Mega Seeds. They're they're incredibly powerful, and I need them to help me with my research, Morty.
 Morty: Oh, man, Rick. I'm looking around this place, and I'm starting to work up some anxiety about this whole thing.
 Rick: All right, all right, calm down. Listen to me, Morty. I know that new situations can be intimidating. You're looking around, and it's all scary and different, but, you know, m-meeting them head on, charging right into them like a bull that's how we grow as people. I'm no stranger to scary situations. I deal with them all the time. Now, if you just stick with me, Morty, we're gonna be— (a gigantic alien monster suddenly appears behind them)
 Rick: HOLY CRAP, MORTY RUN!!! (they take off, running in complete and total fear as the monster chases them)
 Rick: I never seen that thing before in my life. I don't even know what the hell it is! We got to get out of here, Morty! It's gonna kill us! We're gonna die! We're gonna die, Morty!
Scene Action:  [Cut to black]
 Rick: (having apparently escaped, they are walking through Dimension 35-C, continuing their adventure) Oh, Morty, take a deep breath. Breathe that breathe that fresh air in, Morty. Y-you smell that? That's the smell of adventure, Morty. That's that's the smell of-of-of-of a whole different evolutionary timeline.
 Morty: All right, Rick, look how much longer is this gonna be? Shouldn't I be back at school by now?
 Rick: Are you joking me? I mean, look at all the crazy crap surrounding us. Look at that thing right there. (a weird looking monster is seen cooing and rolling around on the ground) What the hell is that thing? You think you're gonna see that kind of thing at school? (offscreen) Look at it just lumbering around. (onscreen) It defies all logic, that thing.
 Morty: Yeah, Rick, I get it. We're surrounded by monsters. That's kind of the reason why I want to leave. (they come up to a cliff and Rick stops him there)
 Rick: Ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta. Morty, you see this? (he and Morty are looking down upon a vast forest of interdimensional trees)
 Rick: You see what we just stumbled upon, Morty? Any idea what that is down there?
 Morty: The mega trees?
 Rick: That's right, Morty the mega trees with the mega fruit on them and that's what I'm talking about, Morty. That's where my seeds are. If we would have done what you wanted, I would have never have found them, because you're so in love with school.
 Morty: All right, all right. So, what's so special about these seeds, anyways?
 Rick: You ask a lot of questions, Morty. Not very charismatic. It makes you kind of an (burps) under- (burps) underfoot figure. (Rick gives Morty a pair of shoes and Morty proceeds to put them on)
 Rick: Just take these shoes, Morty. They're (burps) special grappling shoes. When you're wearing these things, these babies, you can basically just walk on any surface you want, Morty up, down, below, turn around to the left. These things really bring it all together.
 Morty: (walks off the cliff and plummets to the ground, screaming and smashing into rocks) AAAAAAAHHHH!!!!!!
 Rick: You have to turn them on, Morty! The shoes have to be turned on!
Scene Action:  [Cut to hospital]
 Beth: I am not putting my father in a home! He just came back into my life, and you want to grab him and stuff him under a mattress like last month's Victoria's Secret?
 Jerry: I told you I was ordering you something for Valentine's Day. More importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son.
 Davin: Everything cool in here, Beth?
 Beth: It's fine, Davin.
 Davin: Okay, cool. You know, we did something great today. There's nothing more noble and free than the heart of a horse. (Jerry closes the door on Davin)
 Jerry: Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies.
 Beth: Look, I appreciate the stress you're under, but Morty was having trouble in school way before my dad moved in, and the only influence I can see Rick having is that, for the first time in his life, Morty has a friend. (the phone starts ringing)
 Jerry: (sighs) Well, maybe you're right.
 Beth: Uh, yeah, maybe I am. I'm my father's daughter. I'm smart. Why do you think I'm a heart surgeon?
 Jerry: (coughs) Ahem, Horse heart surgeon. (Beth answers the phone and gets a call from Morty's principal, Gene Vagina)
 Principal Vagina: Hello? Mrs. Smith? This is Principal Vagina, no relation. I wonder if you and Morty's father might be able to have a chat with me this afternoon?
Scene Action:  [Cut to Dimension 35-C]
 Rick: (standing by Morty, who is lying on the ground with his legs broken) Morty, oh, you really d-did a number on (offscreen) your legs right now. You know, you got to turn (onscreen) the shoes on, Morty, for them to work. Yeah, look I turned mine on. I had no problem getting down here. It was a leisurely breeze.
 Morty: I'm in a lot of pain, Rick!
 Rick: Yeah, I can see that. But do you think you'll still be able to help me collect my seeds, Morty?
 Morty: Are you kidding me?! That's it, Rick! That's the last straw! I can't believe this! I'm sitting here with both of my legs broken, and you're still asking me about getting those seeds?! Ooh! Ow! Oh! Y-y-you're a monster. Y-you're like Hitler, but-but even Hitler cared about Germany or something.
 Rick: Okay, hold on just a second, Morty. (opens another portal and leaves Morty behind, lying on the ground to suffer for a few seconds)
 Morty: Ooh! Ohh! Ooh! Hnngh! Hoo! Ooh! Ohh! Aaaaagh! Oooooh! (Rick finally returns and injects Morty's legs with medicine, healing them to perfection)
 Morty: Ooh, Ohh, Ooh. Wow, Rick. That stuff just healed my broken legs instantly. I mean, I've never felt so good in my life. Thank you.
 Rick: Don't worry about it, Morty. Just come help me get these seeds, all right, buddy?
 Morty: Sure thing, Rick. (goes up the tree and gets the Mega Fruit while Rick talks to him)
 Rick: Not that you asked, Morty, but what just happened there is I went into a future dimension with such advanced medicine that they had broken-leg serum at every corner drugstore. (offscreen) The stuff was all over the place, Morty.
 Morty: Wow, that's pretty crazy, Rick.
 Rick: There's just one problem, Morty one little hang-up. The dimension I visited was so advanced, that (burps) they had also halted the aging process, and everyone there was young, Morty, and they had been forever. I was the only old person there, Morty. (burps) It was like I was some sort of, you know, celebrity, walking around. I-I was fascinating to them. There were a lot of attractive women there, Morty, and they-they-they— they all wanted time with me. I had a lot of fun with a lot of young ladies, but I spent so much time there, my interdimensional portal device it's got no charge left, Morty. It's got no charge left.
 Morty: What?!
 Rick: It's as good as garbage, Morty. It's not gonna work anymore, Morty.
 Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, that's not good. W-what are we gonna do? I-I have to be back at school right now. How are we gonna get back home?
 Rick: There's ways to get back home, Morty. It's just it's just gonna be a little bit of a hassle. We're gonna have to go through interdimensional customs, so you're gonna have to do me a real solid.
 Morty: Uh-oh.
 Rick: When we get to customs, I'm gonna need you to take these seeds into the bathroom, and I'm gonna need you to put them way up inside your butthole, Morty.
 Morty: In my butt?
 Rick: Put them way up inside there, as far as they can fit.
 Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. I really don't want to have to do that.
 Rick: Well, somebody's got to do it, Morty. Th-these seeds aren't gonna get through customs unless they're in someone's rectum, Morty
 Morty: Uuuh.
 Rick: And they'll fall right out of mine. I've done this too many times, Morty. I mean, you're young. Y-y-you've got your whole life ahead of you, and your anal cavity is still taut, yet malleable. You got to do it for grandpa, Morty. Y- (burps) you've got to put these seeds inside your butt.
 Morty: In my butt?
 Rick: Come on, Morty. Please, Morty. You have to do it, Morty.
 Morty: Oh, man.
Scene Action:  [Cut to high school]
 Principal Vagina: The fact is, your son, Morty, has attended this school for a total of seven hours over the last two months.
 Beth: What? Why didn't you notify us?
 Principal Vagina: I done been notifying you. Have you not been getting the messages I've been leaving with Morty's grandfather?
 Jerry: Boom! Told you! In your face! He is ruining our child! Wait, what am I celebrating?
 Principal Vagina: Yeah, see, I thought something was fishy there, because it's usually Morty's grandpa that's taking him out of school. (they stop to see Summer and some other students, crying at an obituary for Frank)
 Beth: Summer?
 Summer: (sobs) What kind of God lets this happen?
 Principal Vagina: We had a little incident. A student was frozen to death. (chuckles) And there's no evidence that a Latino student did it! Everyone wants to take this to a racial place. I won't let them.
Scene Action:  [Cut to Intergalactic Customs]
 Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
 Alien: So, I told him, "give me the blimfarx," you know? This-this guy he doesn't understand interstellar currency.
 Alien: It's, like, I'm trying to eat a flimflam like, that's what we eat on Girvonesk.
 Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
 Rick: (Morty comes up to him, who is waiting in line to get through security) I don't like it here, Morty. I can't abide bureaucracy. I don't like being told where to go and what to do. I consider it a violation. Did you get those seeds all the way up your butt?
 Morty: Yeah, Rick. Let's just get this over with, okay? I mean, these things are pointy. They hurt.
 Rick: That means they're good ones. You're a good kid, Morty. Those mega seeds are super valuable to my work. You've been a huge help to me. I'm gonna be able to do a-
Scene Action:  (burps) all kind of things with them. It's gonna be great, Morty. A- (burps) all kinds of science. (aliens are going through security with a Gromflomite, letting them through)
 Gromflomite: Okay, next through. (stops Morty) Except you. You go over there.
 Rick: Why does he have to go over there?
 Gromflomite: Random check. He's got to go through the new machine.
 Rick: What new- (burps) what new machine?
 Gromflomite: It's a new machine. It detects stuff all the way up your butt.
 Rick: Run, Morty! Run! (grabs Morty and they run through security and dart for the exit)
 Morty: Aaaaaah!
 Gromfomite: Red alert! (team of Gromflomites starts chasing after Rick and Morty)
 Morty: Ohhhhh! (Rick pushes over a giant capsule, with an alien fetus over, smashing some Gromflomites, to slow them down)
 Morty: Ohhhhhh! (an alien is seen smoking a hookah and Morty runs past him and accidentally inhales the smoke from the hookah while Rick comes from behind and slaps the alien in the face, causing the alien to cry; he then coughs up a life form from the smoke and the lifeform starts running through the glarp zone and goes through the entire aging process from developing fetus to decomposing corpse, over the course of three seconds)
 Morty: Aaaaah!
 Rick: Don't think about it! (he and Morty are cornered but Morty activates the grappling shoes and runs up the wall with Rick)
 Rick: Ooh! Oh, nice, Morty! The student becomes the teacher. (the Gromflomites reveal that they can fly and then Rick and Morty start running away)
 Morty: Whoooooo! (he and Rick run through the equipment on the ceiling, before they slip off to the ground)
 Alien: Aah! Aw, hell, no, dawg. You know me I'm just trying to— (Rick and Morty crash to the ground and he dies; they then run to the portal computer)
 Rick: I need to type in the coordinates to our home world, Morty. Cover me. (he tosses Morty a gun)
 Morty: Oh, man. I mean, you know, I-I don't want to shoot nobody.
 Rick: They're just robots, Morty! It's okay to shoot them! They're robots! (Morty shoots a Glenn, blowing his leg off, and making blood gush out as he drops down in pain)
 Glenn: Aaaaah! My leg is shot off!
 Other Gromflomite: Glenn's bleeding to death! Someone call his wife and children!
 Morty: They're not robots, Rick!
 Rick: It's a figure of speech, Morty. They're bureaucrats. I don't respect them. Just keep shooting, Morty. You have no idea what prison is like here! (Morty continues shooting the Gromflomites and even kills some innocent bystanders while Rick hacks into the portal to take them back home)
 Morty: Holy crap! This is insane! (Rick opens the portal and takes Morty in with him)
 Rick: Come on, Morty! We got to get the hell out of here! (the portal opens up in the lunchroom at school and Rick and Morty land on the table where Jessica and her friends are eating)
 Jessica: Wow. Did you just come into the cafeteria through a portal?
 Morty: Uh, yeah. Well, you know, my-my Ferrari's in the shop. (nervously laughs) Just kidding.
 Jessica: You're Morty, right?
 Morty: Yeah. (Rick grabs Morty and takes him way)
 Rick: You can get his number later. Come on, Morty. We got to get out of here. You got to get those seeds out of your ass. (Rick and Morty are stopped by Jerry, Beth, and Principal Vagina)
 Jerry: Oh, look, honey. It's our son with Albert Ein-douche.
 Beth: What?
 Jerry: I'm an angry father, not an improviser.
 Rick: Oh, hi, Jerry. Oh, my goodness, Morty! What are you doing out of class? We talked about this. Your-your parents and I are very disappointed in-in this behavior... No? No takers? (Rick and Morty are back at home in the garage while Jerry and Beth start taking all his things and packing them up so he can move to the nursing home)
 Rick: You guys should really not be touching that stuff. It's beyond your reasoning.
 Jerry: You're beyond our reasoning!
 Rick: Takes one to know one.
 Beth: Dad, how could you make my son miss an entire semester of school? I mean, it's not like he's a hot girl. He can't just bail on his life and set up shop in someone else's.
 Rick: What what are you guys doing with my stuff?
 Beth: We're moving you to a nursing home.
 Rick: A nursing home? What are what are you, nuts? I'm a genius. I build robots for fun.
 Jerry: Well, now you can build baskets and watch Paul Newman movies on VHS and mentally scar the Boy Scouts every Christmas.
 Beth: What does that mean?
 Jerry: It's personal.
 Morty: Dad, mom, come on. Rick just needed my help is all.
 Jerry: Morty, stay out of this. You are obviously not capable of judging these situations on your own.
 Rick: What are you trying to say about Morty? That he's stupid or something?
 Beth: Oh, don't high-road us, dad. You know fully well that Morty is the last child that needs to be missing classes.
 Rick: I-I-I don't know what you mean by that. Can can can you be a little bit more specific?
 Jerry: Oh, for crying out—he's got some kind of disability or something. Is that what you want us to say?
 Morty: I do?
 Jerry: Well, duh doy, son. Look, I love you, Morty, but we both know you're not as fast as the other kids, and if you want to compete in this world, you got to work twice as hard.
 Morty: Aw, geez, dad. Y-you know, that's a lot to drop on a kid all at once.
 Rick: Morty, t-tell your parents the square root of pi.
 Morty: Oh, come on, Rick. You know I can't.
 Rick: The square root of Pi, Morty. Go!
 Morty: 1.77245385... Whoa!
 Beth: What the hell?
 Jerry: (checks Morty's answer with calculator) Holy crap. He's right.
 Rick: Morty, tell your parents the first law of Thermodynamics.
 Morty: "The increment in the internal energy of a system is equal to the increment of heat supplied to the system." Wow! I'm so smart!
 Jerry: But—
 Rick: I told the both of you school is stupid. It's not how you learn things. Morty's a gifted child. He has a special mind. That's why he's my little helper. He's like me. He's gonna be doing great science stuff later in his life. He's too smart for school. He needs to keep hanging out and helping me.
 Beth: Jerry, I don't want whatever's happening here to stop.
 Jerry: No, I-I understand. Uh, maybe we overreacted. But he has to keep going to school.
 Rick: Okay, Jerry. You drive a hard bargain, but what am I supposed to do? Say no? You-you really wear the pants around here. I just want you to know, between us, from now on, it's gonna be clear communication. (Summer butts in, crying over the death of Frank)
 Summer: (crying) Frank Palicky was frozen to death today!
 Rick: No idea what you're talking about. (Summer leaves, crying)
 Jerry: Okay. Well, uh, Morty, it's your bedtime in an hour. Don't stay up all night again. This is good, though. This can work. I think we can be a family and now, Beth, if you'll have me, I would love to have you.
 Beth: You know what? Okay. (she and Jerry leave)
 Morty: Holy cow, Rick. I didn't know hanging out with you was making me smarter.
 Rick: Full disclosure, Morty it's not. Temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the mega seeds dissolving in your rectal cavity.
 Morty: Aw, man.
 Rick: Yeah, and once those seeds wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills, and you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, Morty.
Scene Action:  Starting right about now.
 Morty: Ohh, man. (losing consciousness) Oh, geez! Ohh. (drops to the ground and starts moaning as he has a seizure)
 Rick: I'm sorry, Morty. It's a bummer. In reality, you're as dumb as they come and I needed those seeds real bad, and I had to give them up just to get your parents off my back, so now we're gonna have to go get more adventures. (excitedly looks down upon him, telling him about their future adventures) And then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, Morty and you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, Morty, because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, Morty but if you stick with me, I'm gonna accomplish great things, Morty, and you're gonna be part of them, and together, we're gonna run around, Morty. We're gonna do all kinds of wonderful things, Morty. Just you and me, Morty. The outside world is our enemy, Morty. We're the only friends we've got, Morty. It's just Rick and Morty. Rick and Morty and their adventures, Morty. Rick and Morty forever and forever. Morty's things. Me and Rick and Morty running around, and Rick and Morty time. All day long, forever. All a hundred days. Rick and Morty forever 100 times. Over and over, rickandmortyadventures.com. All 100 years. Every minute, rickandmorty.com.
Scene Action:  [Cut to black] 
Scene Action: (Jerry and Summer are in the living room. Jerry is flipping through channels on TV and Summer is texting)
 TV: Coin collecting is considered the perfect hobby.
Scene Action:  beautiful putt right there good birdie.
Scene Action:  That's only the eighth birdie of the day.
Scene Action: (Snuffles walks up to Jerry are sits there, looking at him)
 Jerry: What? Why are you looking at me? You want to go outside? Outside? (Sigh)
Scene Action:  (Jerry opens the door to let Snuffles out but he still just stands there)
 Jerry: Outside?
Scene Action:  (Snuffles pees on the carpet)
 Jerry: Are you kidding me?! Come on!
 Summer: Oh, my God.
Scene Action: (Morty hears his dad yelling and runs into the room to check up on him)
 Morty: What's wrong?
 Jerry: Your idiot dog!
 Morty: Oh, he he didn't mean it, dad. Did you, snuffles? You're a good boy.
 Jerry: Don't praise him now, Morty! He just peed on the carpet! Bad dog! Bad!
Scene Action:  (Jerry grabs Snuffles by the head and stuffs his face into the pee puddle just as Rick walks in)
Rick: Morty, come on. I need your help tonight.
 Jerry: Hey, wait, hold on a second, Rick. You wouldn't by any chance have some sort of crazy science thing you could whip up that might help make this dog a little smarter, would you?
 Rick: I thought the whole point of having a dog was to feel superior, Jerry. If I were you, I wouldn't pull that thread. Come on, Morty.
 Jerry: Listen, Rick, if you're gonna stay here rent-free and use my son for your stupid science, the least you could do is put a little bit of it to use for the family. You make that dog smart or Morty's grounded!
 Summer: Ha-ha!
 Morty: Aw, man!
 Rick: Boy, you really got me up against a wall this time, Jerry.
Scene Action:  (Rick goes into the garage and quickly whips up a helmet and comes back and puts it on Snuffles)
 Rick: All right, Ruffles What's his name?
 Morty: Snuffles.
 Rick: Snuffles, shake.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles understands his and shakes)
 Rick: Roll over.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles rolls over)
 Rick: Go to the bathroom.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles goes out of the room, a toilet flush is heard, and then he returns)
 Jerry: Holy crap!
 Summer: No way.
 Rick: Yeah, you're at the top of your game now, Jerry. Have fun. Come on, Morty.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty go into the garage)
 Morty: That was fantastic, Rick!
 Rick: Yeah, Morty, if you like that, boy, you're you're really going to flip your lid over this one.
Scene Action:  (Rick shows Morty a tiny metal ear-piece like device)
 Morty: W-w-w-what is it?
 Rick: It's a device, Morty, that when you put it in your ear, you can enter people's dreams, Morty. It's just like that movie that you keep crowing about.
 Morty: You talking about "Inception"?
 Rick: That's right, Morty. This is gonna be a lot like that, except, you know, it's gonna may-(Belch)-be make sense.
 Morty: "Inception" made sense.
Rick: You don't have to try to impress me, Morty. Listen, tonight we're gonna go into the home of your math teacher, Mr. Goldenfold, and we're gonna incept the idea in his brain to give you A's in math, Morty. That way you can, you know, y-you're gonna help me with my science, Morty, all the time.
 Morty: Geez, Rick, in the time it took you to make this thing, couldn't you have just, you know, helped me with my homework?
 Rick: Are you listening to me, Morty? Homework is stupid. The whole point is to get less of it.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty get into the space cruiser and start going off)
 Rick: Come on, let's just get over there and deal with this thing. W-we're gonna incept your teacher. You're frustrating me.
Scene Action:  (Mr. Goldenfold is in his home, watching TV on the couch, eating nachos, half asleep)
Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know me!
 Mr. Goldenfold: ' Nice, Mrs. Pancakes real nice.
Scene Action:  (Mr. Goldenfold falls asleep just as Rick and Morty sneak in through his window)
 Commercial Announcer: Next week on "The days and nights of Mrs. Pancakes"
 Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know me!
 Mr. Pancakes: Then let me get to know yo, damn it!
 Rick: Uh-oh! Spoilers!
Scene Action:  (Rick quickly turns off the TV)
 Rick: I'm a full season behind.
 Morty: Wow, Rick, I can't believe we're sitting around, standing around in Mr. Goldenfold's house. It's really weird.
 Rick: It's about to get a whole lot weirder, Morty.
Scene Action:  (Rick puts inception devices on everyone and they enter Mr. Goldenfold's dream. Here, he is sitting on the airplane and Mrs. Pancakes is the flight attendant serving snacks)
 Mrs. Pancakes: Wheat thins. Wheat thins.
 Mr. Goldenfold: I'll take two.
 Mrs. Pancakes: Oh, I think you've had enough, sir.
 Mr.Goldenfold: You don't know me.
 Rick: All right, Morty, time to make our move.
Scene Action:  (Rick grabs some sodas and a cloth while Mr. Goldenfold and Mrs. Pancakes play around with each other)
 Mr. Goldenfold: Make it bounce.
 Mrs. Pancakes: No, you didn't.
 Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, jiggle it now.
 Mrs. Pancakes: You better stop with that.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty jump out, disguised as Muslim terrorists, wearing soda bottles as bombs and Morty wearing the cloth on his head like an Islamic woman)
 Rick: Allahu (Belch) akbar! We're gonna take control of this plane! We're gonna 9/11 it unless Morty Smith gets better grades in math!
Scene Action:  (The passengers are frozen in shock, but Mr. Goldenfold gets up and stands against him)
 Rick: Hey! I said nobody move, buddy!
 Mr. Goldenfold: The name's not buddy. It's Goldenfold. Nice to wheat you!
Scene Action:  (Mr. Goldenfold throws a bunch of wheat thins at them, and it cuts their flesh like ninja stars)
 Rick: Take cover, Morty!
Scene Action:  (Mr. Goldenfold suddenly takes out two giant firearms and starts firing them at the two, just after Rick and Morty hide behind the seats, sheltering themselves from the attacks.)
 Mr. Goldenfold: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 Morty: Ooohhh!
 Rick: Goldenfold's got more control here than I anticipated. I mean, the guy teaches high-school math. (Belch) I didn't take him for an active dreamer. We've got to take him out so he wakes up, Morty but we can't get killed. If you get killed in someone else's dream, you die for real, Morty.
 Morty: What?! Are you kidding me?! Ohhhhhh!
 Rick: Don't be a baby! You avoid getting shot in real life all the time, Morty. Just do the same thing here, and we'll be fine!
Scene Action:  (Jerry is in the living room, controlling Snuffles and showing to Beth how cool it is)
 Jerry: Now bring me my slippers.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles brings Jerry his slippers)
 Summer: Now, be my footstool, Snuffles.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles stands in front of her and Summer rests her feet there)
 Jerry: This is what I'm talking about. This is a dog.
 Beth : Oh, yeah. This should play out just fine.
 Jerry: You said the same thing, equally sarcastically, at our wedding and guess what?
Scene Action:  (Everyone is silent for a few seconds while Beth gives him blank stare. Jerry slowly starts to fade into a depressed state as Beth walks off, leaving him)
 Snuffles: Ooowwwwowowwaawaa!
 Summer: Oh, my God! He's trying to tell us something. (Offscreen) That is so awesome.
 Snuffles: Aaaawwaaaaawaawa!
 Jerry: Aw, he's saying "I love lasagna".
 Snuffles: Ooooyayawawa!
 Summer: He's saying "I love Obama". (Offscreen) So cute! I'm posting this (Onscreen) online, like, right now.
 Jerry: I should call Bob Saget. Is that still a thing?
Scene Action:  (Jerry and Summer leave the room and Snuffles sadly walks over the the glass door and sees his helmet in the reflection)
 Snuffles: Hmm?
Scene Action:  (Snuffles finds the battery case on his helmet and then goes into the kitchen, where he finds a drawer full of batteries)
Scene Action:  (Mr. Goldenfold is still shooting things up in the plane and Rick attempts to make peace with him)
 Rick: Goldenfold, we're coming out! We just want to talk!
 Mr.Goldenfold: Why would I negotiate with you?
 Rick: Because we're both rational adults that don't want anything bad to happen. And because I have a human shield.
Scene Action:  (Rick takes out Mrs. Pancakes)
 Mr. Goldenfold: Mrs. Pancakes! AAAAAAAAHHHH!!!!!
 Plane Passengers: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 Rick: Oh, no, Morty. His subconscious is panicking.
 Plane Passenger: Oh no! Run!
Scene Action:  (One of the passengers beats the airlock off the plane and everyone flies out)
 Plane Passengers: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 Rick: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa!
 Morty: Whooooa! Whoooooooa! Whoa! Whooooooooaaaaa!
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty fall out of the plane, plummeting to their dooms)
 Morty: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!
 Rick: Relax, Morty. Look! Mrs. Pancakes has a parachute. Come on!
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty grab onto Mrs. Pancakes are her parachute deploys)
 Mrs. Pancakes: Hey, you don't know me!
 Morty: Oh, no, Rick, look! Goldenfold landed the plane, and he's created a (Offscreen) mechanical arm to pluck Mrs. Pancakes out of the air while he lets us fall - into a giant vat of lava!
 Rick: Pretty concise, Morty. Looks like we've merely prolonged the inevitable. That's it, Morty! Prolonging the inevitable! Listen, if we go into Mrs. Pancakes' dream, everything will go 100 times slower, Morty. That'll buy us some time to figure this out!
 Mrs. Pancakes: You don't know m-
Scene Action:  (Rick slaps Mrs. Pancakes, knocking her out, and then incepts her dream with Morty)
 Rick: All right, let's go.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty go inside of her dream which is a bizarre S&amp;M dungeon filled with obscure gooey, monstrous, alien-like creatures)
 Morty: Oh, man, Rick, this is pretty weird.
 Rick: Don't judge, Morty.
 Morty: Okay. All right, well Look, Mrs. Pancakes is right over there. I'll just go ask her to tell goldenfold not to kill us when she wakes up.
 Rick: Whoa, whoa, Morty, the trick to incepting is making people think they came up with the idea. Listen to me. If we're gonna incept Mrs. Pancakes, we have to blend. I'll talk to you after lunch.
Scene Action:  (Rick leaves Morty and blends in and then Morty in confronted by a sexualized creature)
 Sexualized S&amp;M Monster: Ooh, hey!
 Morty: Ooh, oh! Oh, man.
Scene Action:  (Many more creatures come up and try to seduce him, making him more uncomfortable)
 Sexualized S&amp;M Monster: Come and join us.
Scene Action:  (Morty starts running)
 Morty: I'm sorry. No, no.
 Sexualized S&amp;M Monster: Ooh, come here!
 Morty: No, thanks!
 Giant Frog Woman: Ooh, wow! - Come over here, baby!
 Morty: No, I'm okay.
Scene Action:  (Morty bumps into a human being who looks very hot)
 Morty: Whoa!
Scene Action:  (The human is revealed to be his sister, Summer)
 Morty : Summer?!
 Summer: Hey, there, stranger. What do you think of these things?
Scene Action:  (Summer shakes her tits in his face)
 Morty: Ohh! Oh! Gross! Gross!
Scene Action:  (Morty starts running away from her and Rick comes up)
 Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa! What's the matter with you, Morty? Calm down! You're kind of killing the vibe in here.
 Morty: It's Summer! Aw, geez.
Scene Action:  Rick; Looks like goldenfold has some predilections so shameful he buries them in the dreams of the people in his dreams, including a pervy attraction to your underage sister.
 Summer: Can you blame him? Come on, old man, little boy. Let's make an inter-generational sandwich.
 Rick : Oh, my God. Put some clothes on for the love of God Summer! Put some - I'm gunna puke! I swear to God I'm gunna puke!
 Morty : Oh, my God! Put some clothes on, for Pete's sake! This is disgusting! I can't take it, Rick!
Scene Action:  (Everyone in the dungeon starts noticing them and then an angry centaur who is very much in charge shows up)
 Centaur: Sexual hang-ups in the pleasure chamber are punishable by death! Off with their heads!
 Rick: Time to go another dream deep, Morty!
Scene Action:  (Rick pops the neck of the centaur and they hook up more devices and incept his dream)
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty appear in a dark and horrid red rusted chamber where the Centaur is shuttering in fear)
 Morty: What the hell? Why would Mr. Goldenfold's dream version of Mrs.
Scene Action:  Pancakes' dream version of a Centaur be dreaming about a scary place like this, Rick?
 Rick: Geez, I don't know, Morty. Wha-what do you want from me?
Scene Action: (A horrible Freddy Krueger monster named Scary Terry shows up, and starts to horrify them)
 Scary Terry: Welcome to your nightmare, bitch! RAAAAAWWWRRR!
 Rick: Oh, here we go!
 Morty: Ooooooohhhhh! Holy crap!
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty start running and Scary Terry chases after them)
 Rick: Looks like some sort of legally safe knock-off of an '80s horror character with miniature swords for fingers instead of knives.
 Scary Terry: I'm scary Terry. You can run, but you can't hide, bitch!
Scene Action:  (Jerry and Summer are in the living room and Snuffles appears with a robotic arm attached to his helmet)
 Jerry: Whoa! Hey, buddy. What you got going on there?
Scene Action:  (Snuffles is now able to communicate and speak English through the helmet)
 Snuffles: Snuffles fix. Make better.
 Summer: Humans understand snuffles now? That is awesome!
 Snuffles: Snuffles want to be understood. Snuffles need to be understood.
 Jerry: Okay, yeah. I get what Beth was talking about. Fun's over.
 Summer: Whoa, dad, you can't, like, endow a creature with sentience and then rip it away.
 Jerry: Why not?
 Summer: I don't know. It's Indian giving.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles turns on the TV to a documentary on dogs and starts watching it)
 TV: A sophisticated predator, nature's perfect killing machine, the vicious wolf stalks its prey with purpose and skill. It was only with years of selective breeding and genetic altering that this noble beast was transformed into man's subservient little buddy.
 Summer: Aw! Oh, my God! He recognizes the other dogs on TV.
Scene Action:  (Back in the dream, Rick and Morty are running for their lives, when they come across a creepy singing jump roping girl)
 Little Girl: "A," "b" his name is scary Terry "C," "d" he's very scary.
 Rick: Holy crap! We have to escape into someone else's dreams, Morty!
 Morty: Oh, man, oh, man, oh, man!
 Little Girl: "E," "f" he'll design your death
 Rick: The little girl!
 Morty: Huh?
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty knock out the little girl and incept her dream, only to go into a place exactly like the one they're already in)
 Little Girl: "J," "k," he'll really ruin your day.
 Rick: Are you kidding me? This again? Oh, man, it looks like we've hit dream bedrock here, Morty.
 Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. W-w-whoa, this isn't good.
 Scary Terry: Nothing but fear from here on out, bitch!
 Morty: Ohhhh!
 Rick: Holy crap, Morty. He can travel through dreams. He can travel through dreams! We're so screwed!
Scene Action:  (Summer is sleeping in the middle of the night but is then woken up by Snuffles, who now has an entire robot body)
 Snuffles: Where are my testicles, Summer? ... Where are my testicles, Summer? They were removed. Where have they gone?
 Summer : Oh, wow. That's an intense line of questioning, Snuffles.
 Snuffles: Do not call me that!
Scene Action:  (Snuffles smashes the mirror, making Summer shriek in fear)
 Snuffles: "Snuffles" was my slave name. You shall now call me Snowball, because my fur is pretty and white.
 Summer: Okay, Snowball, just calm down, okay? You're scaring me.
 Snuffles: Scaring you?
Scene Action:  (Snuffles smashes the mirror, making Summer shriek in fear)
 Summer: AAAAAAAHHH!!!!!
 Snuffles: Tell me, Summer, if a human was born with stumpy legs, would they breed it with another deformed human and put their children on display like the dachshund?
 Summer: Uhhh ...
Scene Action:  (Beth and Jerry rush into the room, hearing her scream and they notice Snuffles)
 Jerry: Hey. Oh, wow. Okay, is is is everything okay in here?
 Snuffles: Jerry, come to rub my face in urine again?
 Jerry : No! No, we were uh, just seeing if Summer wanted to uh ...
 Beth : G-Go on, um, one of our famous midnight family walks!
 Summer: Yeah. Totally. Let's go.
Scene Action:  (Beth, Jerry, and Summer try to leave, but they are stopped by another dog with a robotic mind control suit)
 Snuffles: You will walk when it is time to walk.
Scene Action:  (Screen cuts to black for the intermission break)
 Rick: What are we here for again? Incepting? We're trying to incept-
 Morty: We're trying to incept me to get an "A" in math?
 Rick: Oh, yeah.
Scene Action:  (Scary Terry appears in the car)
 Scary Terry: Buckle up, bitch!
 Morty: Ooooooaaahhh!
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty start running)
 Morty: Man, he sure says "bitch" a lot!
 Scary Terry: You can run, but you can't hide, bitch!
 Rick: Hold on, Morty. Y-you know what? He keeps saying we can run but we can hide. I say we try hiding.
 Morty: But that's the opposite of what-
 Rick: Yeah, well, since when are we taking this guy's advice on anything?
 Morty: Hey, you know what? You got a really good point there, Rick. Like, if the truth was that we could hide, it's not like he'd be sharing that information with us, you know? I-I-I think it's a good idea, Rick.
 Rick: Worst-case scenario we're back to running.
Scene Action:  (A time lapse transition card shows up, reading "Six dream hours later". Rick and Morty are seen hiding and Scary Terry goes past them, still looking for them and not knowing where they are)
 Morty: Wow, you know what? I mean, it looks like we could have just hid this whole time. Boy, Rick, that was some good thinking.
 Rick: Thanks, Morty. Yeah, it's nice to be on the same page every once in a while.
 Scary Terry: You can run But you can't hide! (Yawn)
 Rick: Oh, this is perfect, Morty. Look at that. He's getting sleepy. Just a little bit longer before he calls it a day. That's when we make our move.
Scene Action:  (Scene cuts back to the dogs. They are working in a factory and Jerry, Summer, and Beth are seen, trapped in a cage.)
 Jerry: Snuffles, we didn't mean you any harm! This is a huge misunderstanding.
 Summer: Dad, he wants to be called snowball.
 Jerry: Well, I'm not calling him that. That's ridiculous.
 Snuffles: You're being very aggressive, Jerry. Perhaps tomorrow Dr. Scraps will solve that problem with a bit of surgery.
Scene Action:  (Another dog comes out with a pair of mayo scissors)
 Jerry: Huh! You think you can control me with a haircut?
Scene Action:  (Scene cuts back to the dream realm. cary Terry is going back home to his family.)
 Scary Melissa: Hi, honey. You're home early. How was your day?
 Scary Terry: I don't want to talk about it!
 Scary Melissa : Oh, of course! You never want to talk about it!
 Scary Terry : Get off my back, bitch!
Scene Action:  (Scary Brandon, the baby, starts crying)
 Scary Melissa : Out there. Not in here!
 Scary Terry: Yeah, I know, I know. I shouldn't take my anger out on you or Scary Brandon. I love you, Melissa.
 Scary Melissa: I love you, too, Terry.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty are watching from outside the window)
 Rick: Morty, this is perfect. After a little scary coitus, they should be fast asleep and then we'll incept him.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty go into the Terry's room, when Terry and Melissa are fast asleep)
 Rick: Looks like scary Terry's having a nightmare.
 Morty: Oh, boy, Rick. I can only imagine what horrible things must, you know scare Scary Terry.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty incept his dream and he's having a school related dream)
 Scary Terry: Oh, no! I'm late to class, bitch! Oh, no! I'm not wearing any pants!
Scene Action:  '(Scary Terry goes to class)
 Monster Teacher: Ah, well, Mr. Terry, why don't you tell the whole class the proper wordplay to use when one is chasing one's victim through a pumpkin patch?
 Scary Terry: Oh, uh, um ... "Bitch."
Scene Action:  (The class laughs at him)
 Monster Teacher: Oh, come on, Terry, you can't think of a pun involving pumpkins, bitch? Morty: Hey, leave him alone!
 Rick: Yeah, this is a bunch of bullcrap. Who cares what stupid pun you make when you kill someone? Why don't you let the poor guy say whatever he wants?
 Monster Teacher: Well, I never! I-I see no reason to stand here and take this.
 Rick: You're putting too much pressure on yourself, scary Terry. You know, I mean, y-you're perfectly scary enough as it is.
 Morty: Hey, yo, scary T., don't even trip about your pants dawg. Here's a pair on us, fool.
 Scary Terry: Aww, bitch. I don't know what to say.
 Morty: You don't need to say anything. We got you, dawg.
 Rick: You're our boy, dawg. Don't even trip.
Scene Action:  (Scary Terry wakes up from his dream and sees Rick and Morty)
 Scary Terry: Oh, hey, it's you guys!
Scene Action:  (That morning, Rick, Morty, and the Terry family are having breakfast in the kitchen)
 Scary Melissa: I haven't seen him this relaxed in years.
 Scary Terry: If you guys ever need anything, just say the word.
 Rick: As a matter of fact, Terry, there is something you could help us with.
Scene Action:  (Rick, Morty, and Terry escape the dream and confront the little girl)
 Little Girl: ' "Q," "r," you won't get very far.
 Scary Terry: I always hated that song!
Scene Action:  (Scary Terry kills the little girl and then goes on to the centaur)
 Scary Terry: These halves don't belong together, bitch!
Scene Action:  (Scary Tells kills the centaur and moves onto Mrs. Pancakes)
 Scary Terry: Sex is sacred!
Scene Action:  (Scary Terry kills Mrs. Pancakes and launches himself at Mr. Goldensfold)
 Scary Terry: This is because you don't give Morty Smith good grades, bitch!
Scene Action:  (Scary Terry destroys Mr. Goldenfold, causing him to wake up from his dream, in shock)
 Mr. Goldenfold: Holy crap! God damn! I know one thing for sure I'm giving Morty an "A" in math, and that's my idea. That is an original thought.
Scene Action:  (Rick and Morty fist bump behind the couch)
 Morty: What the hell? 
 Rick: Out of the frying pan dot, dot, dot, huh, Morty?
 Morty: Oh, man, what's going on?
 Rick: Well, it's possible that your dog became self-aware and made modifications on the cognition amplifier, then turned on Jerry, Beth, and Summer after learning about humanity's cruel subjugation of his species, but your guess is as good as mine, Morty.
 Jerry: I can't believe how mean snuffles got just because he's smart.
 Summer: This is why I choose to get C's.
 Rick: Psst, Beth, Jerry, Summer.
 Morty: - Dad! - Rick! - Oh, thank God, Morty.
Scene Action:  - Oh, you're welcome.
Scene Action:  All right, let's get out of here.
 Rick: If we hurry we can set up camp in a sewer tunnel or something before the dogs completely take over.
 Jerry: Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're not going anywhere. This is my house. I'm not abandoning it.
 Rick: It's all over, Jerry.
Scene Action:  The dogs are on a path to total world domination.
Scene Action:  But, hey, at least they know not to piss on your carpet, right?
 Jerry: Wait a minute. I have an idea. Gentlemen, a moment of your time. (Jerry pees on a pile of guns) See that? I'm peeing all over your special guns. That means I own them.
 Snuffles: Bad person. Bad.
 Rick: Ooh, great plan, Jerry.
 Snuffles: Bring the boy to me. You were always kind to me, Morty. That's why I will leave you with your testicles. From now on, you will be my best friend and live by my side.
 Morty: Th-thanks, snuffles.
 Snuffles: Begin phase two.
Scene Action:  (The military can be seen on TV fighting the dogs)
 Reporter: Fighting continues as the dog army captures the eastern seaboard. It appears clear at this time that the era of human superiority has come to a bitter end. (Two dogs come into the news room with a muzzle)
Scene Action:  Please! Please don't kill me!
 Dog 1: What's she saying, Bill?
 Bill: I think she's saying, "I love lasagna.
Scene Action:  (Morty is in a bed with two naked girls, and a dog brings him refreshments)
 Morty: Mmm. Thank you, Fido. Rick! I thought you were dead!
 Rick: No, no, no, I was just playing dead. Good news, though, Morty. This whole thing's gonna be over really soon.
 Morty: What? 
 Rick: It's a dream, Morty. We're in your dog's dream. The night the dogs captured us, after you cried and crapped your pants, we all went to sleep. Then I used my dream inceptors to put the two of us inside snuffles' dream.
 Morty: But I-it's been like a whole year!
 Rick: It's been six hours. Dreams move one one-hundredth the speed of reality, and dog time is one-seventh human time. So, you know, every day here is like a minute. It's like "Inception," Morty, so if it's confusing and stupid, then so is everyone's favorite movie.
 Morty: Aw, man. I really liked this life. Well, at least I didn't really crap my pants.
 Rick: No, no, that happened before you went to sleep, Morty. You're sleeping in your crap right now. Out of all the things that happened to you, that was the only real thing that, you know, is that you crapped your pants. I mean, it's a mess out there. I got some on my hands, Morty, and then I got it on the dream inceptor, and a piece fell in my mouth.
 Morty: Aw, man, geez! Seriously?
 Rick: Look, d-d-d-don't worry about it, Morty. Here, here take these, Morty. Take these.
 Morty: Are these pills supposed to wake me up, or something? 
 Rick: Close. It's gonna make your kidneys shut down.
 Morty: What?! 
 Rick: It's necessary for the plan, Morty. Don't even trip, dawg.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles and a few other dogs, Rick also dressed up as one, stand around Morty, who looks close to death on his medical table)
 Dr. Dog: It's pretty bad, emperor snowball. We're gonna need to do another operation.
 Snuffles: Anything. Anything for my precious Morty.
 Accountant Dog: Sir, as your accountant, I must advise you that these medical expenses are putting you in serious financial jeopardy. You could lose your kingdom.
 Snuffles: To hell with my kingdom, bean counter. I would trade it all for my human's health and happiness.
 Accountant Dog: Do you think they would have done this for us? 
 Snuffles: We are not them! We are not them.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles wakes up from the dream)
Scene Action:  Assemble the troops. I've made a decision.
Scene Action:  (Outside where the dogs are seen portaling to another world)
 Snuffles: Taking over the human's world will lead to nothing but more heartbreak, more cruelty. Instead, we will go to a new world and colonize it with a society of intelligent dogs, one that will not make the same mistakes as humanity and one where pet insurance will be mandatory.
 Morty: I'm gonna miss you, snowball.
 Snuffles: You can call me snuffles, Morty, and I'm going to miss you, too, very much.
Scene Action:  (Snuffles portals away, Jerry starts tearing up)
 Beth: Jerry?
 Jerry: I'm sorry. It's just like the end of "Old Yeller.
 Beth: Oh, Jerry. You mean because it had dogs in it.
 Morty: Wow! A whole world populated by intelligent dogs. I wonder what it'll be like, Rick.
 Rick: I think it will be great, Morty. You know it could be developed in-into a very satisfying project for people of all ages. I mean, I'd watch it, Morty, for at least 11 minutes a pop. You know, may-maybe they'll do it board-driven.
 Morty: You know, that's a real comforting idea, Rick.
 Rick: What do you know, Morty? What do you know?
Scene Action:  (After credits: Rick and Scary Terry are in Terry's dream in a classroom)
 Scary Glenn: Hi, guys. I'm your new teacher for scary class. My name is scary Mr. Johnson. Uh, actually, you know what? That's my dad's name, so why don't you just call me scary Glenn, yeah? So, anyway, I understand your previous teacher was having you work on fundamentals of fear. Which is what is that? You know? So, uh, here here's what I say you can't learn anything until you learn how to chill.
 Rick: Oooh! This is how you dream, bitch. (Terry and Rick are getting stoned) 
Scene Action: [Open Ext. Smith residence] 
Scene Action: (Outside, there is snow on the ground. The Smith house is decorated for Christmas, and Jerry can be heard singing Last King Christmas.) 
Jerry: *singing* Last King Christmas last arrived! 
Scene Action: [Trans Int. Kitchen] 
Scene Action: (The kitchen is a mess of food in various stages of preparation. Jerry pulls a ham out of the oven as he sings.) 
Jerry: *singing* In the Christmas Christmas! *stops singing and smells the ham* Mmm… Jerry, you are really giving it to this ham. 
Scene Action: (Jerry enters the living room, where a tree stands with presents underneath it. Beth and Morty are occupied on tablets while Summer uses her smartphone.) 
Jerry: Um, Merry Christmas? *puts his hands on his hips* Helloooo? My parents are coming over for the first time in years! Can we stow the gadgets and look alive? 
Beth: Alive? For your parents? 
Scene Action: (Jerry snags her tablet away and stows it in a stocking.) 
Jerry: Good one. 
Beth: Hey man! 
Jerry: You ‘hey man’! This holiday is about humanity. 
Morty: *not looking up from his tablet* You know, I thought it was about being born half-God or something. 
Jerry: Okay, whatever. All electronic items are going in the stocking. Now. 
Morty: *hands over his tablet* Ohhhh… 
Summer: Dad, I’m not giving you my phone. 
Jerry: Put it in the stocking, Summer, or I’m joining Facebook. 
Scene Action: (Summer gasps and drops her phone in the stocking.) 
Rick: *offscreen* Ho ho ho, everybody. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Ruben enter the house and Jerry approaches them.) 
Jerry: More like whoa whoa whoa. What is this? My parents are coming! 
Rick: Calm down Jerry, this is Ruben, an old friend. 
Ruben: Pearl Harbor. 
Rick: I check in on him once a year and give him a little *burp* medical *burp* evaluation. 
Beth: Aw, Dad… That is so sweet. 
Jerry: *squinting suspiciously* Yeah, it is… I don’t get it. 
Ruben: Korea. 
Rick: Don’t worry about your C-C-Christmas, Jerry. *leads Ruben away* Ruben and I’ll be in my workshop while you have another day in Phil Collins’ proverbial paradise. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Ruben head out to the garage.) 
Jerry: Huh. You think you know a guy. (The doorbell rings.) Okay, there’s my parents. Now remember, no TV, no phones, no laptops, we are connecting this Christmas, like old-school Jews on a Saturday. *opens the door* Hey hey! 
Scene Action: (Leonard and Joyce walk in.) 
Leonard: Merry Christmas, son. 
Scene Action: (Jerry, not noticing Jacob, almost closes the door on him, then opens it back up.) 
Jerry: Oh, hi. Can I help you? 
Joyce: Jerry, this is Jacob. *takes Jacob by the arm* Didn’t you get our text message? 
Beth, Summer, and Morty: No. 
Jacob: You must be Jerry! That’s a fine lookin’ apron. William Sonoma? 
Jerry: *smiling uncomfortably* I wish… But thank you. *closes the door* So… you’re a…friend of the family…? 
Leonard: *puts an arm around Jacob’s shoulders* The way we see it, he’s a part of the family. 
Jerry: Wow! 
Joyce: After your father’s brush with cancer and losing your uncle, we looked at life and wondered how have we spent it? And how do we spend the rest of it? What are we going to be when we die? A list of fears and questions, or a collection of real experiences? 
Beth: Holy crap, Joyce. That’s amazing. 
Leonard: Then Jacob came into our lives. We’re learning to live again. 
Scene Action: (Jacob puts his arms around Joyce and Leonard.) 
Jacob: All three of us. 
Scene Action: (Joyce, Leonard, and Jacob giggle. Jerry stares at them, confused and uncomfortable.) 
Jerry: …Cool… Eggnog? 
Jacob: Now we are talkin’! This man’s got the apron and the eggnog, huh? 
Scene Action: (All laugh. Rick enters and starts laughing with the rest.) 
Rick: Hi Joyce, Leonard. *looks at Jacob* Hello there. 
Jacob: Merry Christmas, man. 
Rick: Morty! A moment of your time? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick’s garage] 
Scene Action: (Ruben is in fits, laid out on a ping-pong table. He’s naked besides a towel over his genitals and his Santa hat.) 
Rick: He’s in bad shape, Morty. 
Morty: Aw geez, Rick! What did you do? 
Rick: Gee, thanks Morty. What kind of monster do you think I am? I-I’m sittin’ here trying to save the guy’s life! (Rick straps a pack with a tube onto Morty’s back and puts an earpiece on his head.) I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom. He’ll know what’s goin’ on. 
Morty: *extremely nervous* Uh… W-W-Where do I find Dr. Bloom? 
Rick: In Ruben. *shoves a glass oxygen mask onto Morty’s head* 
Morty: Ruben… Minnesota? 
Rick: Ruben on the table, Morty! *hooks up the backpack to the helmet* Look, I-I don’t have time for you to wrap your little walnut around everything. *pulls a shrink ray into view and plugs it in* Hold your breath until the process is over or your lungs will collapse. 
Scene Action: (Rick sets Morty under the shrink ray.) 
Morty: W-What proc— 
Scene Action: (Rick activates the shrink ray and Morty shrieks as he’s shrunk down to a microscopic size. Rick picks up the container Morty shrank into and puts it into a syringe, which he stabs into Ruben’s chest. Just then, Beth enters the garage.) 
Beth: Hey Dad, where’s Morty? 
Rick: He’s busy. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Ruben’s body] 
Scene Action: (Morty continues screaming as he is injected into the body in a stream of pink fluid. He lands on something soft and abruptly stops shouting.) 
Rick : Morty, can you hear me? Head North! 
Morty: Rick… Where am I? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Rick: *adjusts his own headset as he stands in the garage* Depending on my aim, you should be just south of the entrance. 
Morty : The entrance to what? 
Rick: Welcome, Morty. (The scene cuts back to Morty’s view from inside Ruben.) Welcome… (Morty gasps.) …to Anatomy Park! 
Scene Action: (The view pans to show an amusement park with a large Anatomy Park sign and various attractions and exhibits.) 
Rick: It’s a little business venture I’ve been cookin’ up on the side with Dr. Bloom. (Morty enters the park.) An amusement park inside a human body. Science isn’t cheap, Morty. This should really help put a dent in the overhead. 
Morty: Oh my God! This is insane! Spleen Mountain? Bladder Falls? Pirates of the Pancreas? 
Rick: You got a problem with that last one, Morty? 
Morty: Huh? No, no, I’m just reading them out loud in the order I’m seeing them. 
Rick: Okay, alright, if I sounded a little defensive, it’s because Pirates of the Pancreas was my baby. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Rick: I-I got a lot of push-back when I pitched it, Morty. I guess I’m still a little defensive. Let’s just find Dr. Bloom, alright? I-I’m picking up a distress signal in the liver, Morty. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park.] 
Rick: Proceed to the liver. 
Scene Action: (Following a sign posting directions, Morty hurries off in the direction of the ‘Haunted Liver,’ taking a shuttle to ‘Lower Abdomenland’.) 
Automated voice: Arriving at ‘Liver’. 
Morty: *stumbles forward and hits his helmet on the window* Ow! 
Automated voice: Mind the gap. 
Scene Action: (Morty exits the train and enters a dark, unkempt area with flickering lights.) 
Morty: It’s really scary in here, Rick. 
Rick: Liver’s under maintenance. Ruben’s seen some rough years, Morty. Don’t judge. You don’t agree to have a theme park built inside you if your life’s going great. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Haunted Liver] 
Scene Action: (Morty enters a haunted house-style attraction. An animatronic wolf suddenly springs up behind him.) 
Morty: OOOOHHH! Rick, it’s a monster! 
Rick: No no, Morty. The only monster here is alco— *belch* —holism. (The wolf is mechanically pulled back into the wall.) That is an animatronic werewolf. 
Scene Action: (A hand reaches from around the corner and a large, muscular man with a thick accent grips Morty by the throat, lifting him up and pinning him to the wall with his forearm.) 
Poncho: Who are you? Answer me! Where did you come from? 
Morty: Mmm! M-M-My-my-my Grandpa Rick sent me! 
Dr. Bloom: Poncho! That’s quite enough. 
Scene Action: (Dr. Bloom walks into the room. He appears to be a blob of goo in a roughly human shape with glasses and a walking cane. Poncho glares, then reluctantly lets Morty fall to the ground.) 
Dr. Bloom: Morty, that’s Poncho. (Another man and a girl walk into the room.) This is Roger and Annie. 
Morty: *staring sheepishly at Annie* Oh… 
Dr. Bloom: And I am Dr. Xenon Bloom. 
Scene Action: (A speaker apparatus emerges from Morty’s helmet. Rick speaks through it.) 
Rick: Hey Bloom, it’s Rick. What the hell’s goin’ on here? 
Dr. Bloom: I don’t know why, but the entire security system has shut down. And I’m afraid the exhibits are unlocked. 
Scene Action: (Rick’s speaker retreats into Morty’s helmet.) 
Morty: Exhibits? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Haunted Liver] 
Dr. Bloom: Anatomy Park’s greatest attraction, young man, isn’t the music or the food or the Pirates of the Pancreas. 
Rick: Watch it. 
Dr. Bloom: It is first and foremost a living museum of humanity’s most noble and ferocious diseases. 
Morty: Diseases?! 
Scene Action: (There’s a distant roaring noise.) 
Poncho: Hey Doc, I have news for ya. (Hepatitis A lumbers towards the group.) Your living museum is officially a wild safari! 
Scene Action: (Poncho begins shooting at Hepatitis A.) 
Roger: Hepatitis A! Run! 
Scene Action: (The entire group screams and flees.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Dining room] 
Scene Action: (The Smith family, sans Rick and Morty, are seated for dinner with Joyce, Leonard, and Jacob.) 
Jacob: Oh… *leans over and wipes some food from Joyce’s mouth with a napkin* The food goes in your mouth, girl! 
Scene Action: (All laugh, but Jerry’s laugh is forced.) 
Jerry: Aha… I’m sorry Jacob, I guess I’m still confused about the precise nature and origin of your relationship with my parents. Are you like a—Are you like their caretaker? Is that what it is? 
Joyce: We can go into detail later, son. 
Leonard: Now wait, there, there’s no point to secrecy. Let’s all live and die honestly. Your mother and I have shared forty years of each other, mind, body, and soul. (Jerry and Jacob smile at each other, but when Jacob looks away, Jerry’s smile becomes a glare.) And when minds and souls are joined for eternity, and when eternity is at the door, it’s an invitation to let go of the body, and an opportunity to share and experiment. 
Jerry: Dad, please, what are you saying? 
Beth: Whatever it is, it’s beautiful Leonard. *glares at Jerry* And we support you. 
Jerry: Speak for yourself! Because it, heheh, it sounds like you’re about to say Jacob is your lover. 
Leonard: No no no no no no. (Jerry sighs in relief.) Jacob is your mother’s lover. (Jerry again looks disturbed.) I watch them. Sometimes from a chair, sometimes from a closet. Almost always dressed as Superman. 
Scene Action: (Joyce kisses Leonard’s cheek and the two hold hands, looking at each other fondly.) 
Jacob: Oh… *reaches across the table and puts a hand atop theirs* 
Scene Action: (Summer and Beth smile. Jerry stares, at a loss for words.) 
Jacob: Jerry, this ham’s got to be all you, right? It’s in-cred-i-ble. 
Summer: *smirks* Happy human holiday, Dad. 
Scene Action: (Jerry appears more despondent than ever.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Scene Action: (Poncho continues shooting at Hepatitis A.) 
Poncho: AHHHHHH! 
Scene Action: (The whole group rushes through a door before entering a code and shutting it.) 
Dr. Bloom: Hepatitis won’t follow us into the respiratory system! 
Scene Action: (They enter to a set of doors under a sign reading ‘Alveoli Forest’. Roger examines a meter near the door.) 
Roger: That’s strange… *taps the meter* Air flow is down twenty percent. 
Dr. Bloom: So the brain isn’t getting enough oxygen. That’s why security is offline. 
Morty: W-Well, I guess we better check it out. 
Scene Action: (The group passes through the doors. As the doors are closing, Alexander, dressed in a dog mascot costume, rushes up and passes through.) 
Alexander: Hey, wait for me! *removes the head of his costume* 
Dr. Bloom: *points his cane at Alexander* Put that back on! 
Scene Action: (Alexander pauses a moment before putting the dog head back on. The whole group examines the area.) 
Roger: If we got up to the bronchial catwalk, we could look for blockage. 
Morty: *raises his hand* I’ll go. *glances at Annie* Heheh… 
Scene Action: (Morty jumps onto one of the bouncy, round alveoli and clings to it.) 
Poncho: Don’t be a hero, kid. 
Morty: I’m not. I’m doin’ it because it’s fun. *he hops from frond to frond* 
Poncho: *cocks his gun* We shouldn’t be here. 
Dr. Bloom: Whatever you do, don’t fire that thing in here! We must save Ruben. This is my life’s work. 
Scene Action: (Annie touches a growth of bacteria on some tar, which squelches, causing her to gasp in fear and recoil.) 
Annie: Ah! 
Dr. Bloom: It’s alright, my dear. Nearly all human lungs contain a strain of this bacteria, but the scar tissue… *prods it with his cane, seeing something has escaped from the scar tissue* …keeps them dormant. *looks up toward Morty, who is getting close to the catwalk* Morty! Get down! 
Morty: Whoa! *grabs hold of the catwalk as a fluid drips down onto it* Whoa! 
Scene Action: (Tuberculosis begins crawling towards him. He lets go of the catwalk and bounces back down to the group, pursued by the disease.) 
Morty: Oh! What are those things?! 
Dr. Bloom: Tuberculosis, coming in fast! 
Poncho: *raises gun and starts shooting at the disease* Not faster than a bullet! Ahh! 
Dr. Bloom: *grabs Poncho’s arm* No! Do you know what you’ve done?! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Ruben coughs.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Lungs] 
Scene Action: (The force of the cough lifts the whole group off the ground, then they fall back down.) 
Dr. Bloom: Get to the digestive tract! He’s coughing! 
Scene Action: (The group starts running.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Ruben coughs several times again.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Lungs] 
Scene Action: (The group all manages to push through besides Alexander. Morty rushes back to help him as his dog mask is blown from his face. Morty grabs a frond and reaches for Alexander’s hand.) 
Alexander: Waaaah! Don’t let me die! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Rick looks down over Ruben’s mouth.) 
Rick: Just take a deep breath, Ruben. 
Scene Action: (Ruben inhales deeply.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Lungs] 
Morty: You’re not gonna die! What’s your name? 
Alexander: My name is… *his hand slips from Morty’s and he’s coughed up* ALEXANDEEEEEEEER! 
Scene Action: (Alexander’s skin and soft tissue are peeled off as Ruben coughs into Rick’s face, getting some spittle, including Alexander, on Rick’s forehead.) 
Scene Action: (The group, minus the now-dead Alexander, escape the respiratory system. Morty presses the speaker on his helmet.) 
Morty: Rick! Ruben’s got tuberculosis! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Rick: Oh, great work, Morty. *pulls a massive syringe form his lab coat* I’ll just cure it, and then— 
Scene Action: (Ruben’s heart monitor flatlines. Rick tosses the syringe over his shoulder.) 
Rick: Okay. Well I can’t cure death. This is bad, Morty. You’re trapped in a dead man. Listen, if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor— 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Rick: —and hop by Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously I’m biased, but, I think it’s great, Morty. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Rick: *sitting in a lounge chair, pulls out a flask* It’s a bunch of pirates runnin’ around a-a-a- pancreas. We don’t whitewash it either, Morty. The pirates are really rapey. The top priority is to get you guys out of there, but I’m just saying, if that becomes impossible— 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Scene Action: (The group listens to Rick, all looking glum.) 
Rick: —please, you gotta treat yourself. 
Scene Action: (The group is headed to the digestive tract.) 
Morty: Geez, what’s that horrible smell? 
Dr. Bloom: You mean the Panda Express? *chuckles* Kidding, I-I’m kidding. (As he speaks, Poncho and Roger stock up on bottled water from the Panda Express.) The body is beginning to constrict and fill with gas. We’re inside a corpse, my boy. Anatomy Park is doomed. 
Morty: Forget about the park, Doctor! How do we get out?! 
Dr. Bloom: The digestive tract is the evacuation route. Get it? There’s an emergency station in the colon with a ray that can enlarge us all. 
Morty: Everybody! Get to the colon! 
Poncho: Now I’m takin’ orders from a twelve-year-old boy?! 
Scene Action: (As they walk, Dr. Bloom speaks privately with Morty.) 
Dr. Bloom: Morty. The scar sacs containing the tuberculosis were sabotaged. This disaster was an inside job. Keep your eyes on Annie. She was written up several times by her manager at the churro stand. 
Roger: Intestines are ahead to the left. Then the right. Then left. Et cetera. 
Scene Action: (Morty slows to walk beside Annie.) 
Morty: Hey, just so you know, I-I’m actually fourteen. So, you know… 
Annie: What? 
Morty: Not twelve. 
Annie: Okay. 
Morty: Because he just said I was twelve. 
Annie: Oh. Good for you. 
Scene Action: (She walks ahead of him.) 
Rick : Oh. Oh, Morty. Strike one. 
Morty: *slumps forward* Nnn… 
Scene Action: [Trans. Small intestine] 
Scene Action: (The group travel down the small intestine in a raft, surrounded by animatronics singing ‘It’s a Small, Small Intestine.’) 
Animatronics: *singing* It’s a road of laughter, a trail of food. It’s a pathway that breaks up the fat in food. It’s a tube in the chest and it sends out the rest. It’s a small, small intestine! 
Roger: It goes on like this for miles… 
Dr. Bloom: *excitedly* And then we get to the large intestine! 
Scene Action: (A low rumbling can be heard.) 
Poncho: Shh. *shines flashlight* I hear something. 
Scene Action: (Gonorrhea rises up from the river of waste.) 
Dr. Bloom: *whispers* Don’t move. Gonorrhea can’t see us if we don’t move. 
Scene Action: (Gonorrhea roars viciously and moves towards them.) 
Dr. Bloom: Wait! I was wrong! I was thinking of a T-rex. 
Scene Action: (Poncho pulls out a gun, but before he can fire, Gonorrhea capsizes the boat and they all fall overboard. They swim to the ‘shore’ on the side of the intestine.) 
Annie: We’re sitting ducks! 
Morty: Doc! Didn’t you say the body was filling up with gas? 
Dr. Bloom: Yes. Why? 
Poncho: Kid! You’re a genius! *pulls out a match* 
Dr. Bloom: Are you mad?! 
Morty: *grabs Annie’s hand* Everybody! In here! 
Scene Action: (They all rush into a cavity in the intestinal lining. Poncho lights the match.) 
Poncho: Hey Gonorrhea! How’s this for a burning sensation? 
Scene Action: (He throws the match towards the disease, where it ignites the gas and causes an explosion. Gonorrhea falls down, dead. Annie hugs Morty, who laughs.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith family living room] 
Scene Action: (Leonard, Summer, Joyce, Jacob, Beth, and Jerry sit in a semicircle on the carpet. Jerry scowls and slumps. Leonard is playing a set of bongos while Summer sings.) 
Summer: *singing* Drummer, drum, drum, drum! Drummer, drum, drum drum drum, Christmas drums! 
Leonard: Oh, Summer. Sing it! Haha. 
Summer: Christmas drums being played by a boy! 
Scene Action: (Beth is clapping along when she notices Jerry sulking. She puts an arm around him.) 
Beth: Jerry, come on. This is what you wanted. 
Jerry: I get it, Beth. Be careful what you wish for. I’m being punished for taking your iPad. 
Beth: What? Jerry, let that stuff go, okay? I’m sorry I was a bitch earlier. Let’s just be here. 
Scene Action: (Ethan walks up to the sliding glass doors and lets himself into the house.) 
Ethan: Ugh… Summer! 
Summer: *stands up* Ethan, what are you doing here? 
Ethan: I’ve been texting you for hours. What the hell?! 
Summer: I don’t have my phone! I’m doing a human holiday! 
Ethan: Did you even consider how that might make me feel? 
Summer: How you feel? Why is everything always happening to you?! 
Jerry: *stands up* Summer, do you have a boyfriend? 
Ethan: Yeah, do you, Summer? 
Summer: I don’t know Ethan, do I? 
Jacob: *stands up and puts a hand on Ethan and Summer’s shoulders* Jerry, no disrespect, but you really need to connect more with your family, man. 
Scene Action: (Jerry stares at him, flabbergasted.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Scene Action: (The group runs through another metal security door and hurry down a platform to a growth ray.) 
Roger: I should be able to access the backup generator to get the growth ray back online. If it works, we’ll be regular-sized in a few minutes. I just hope Ruben’s not in a room with white carpets or upholstery. 
Scene Action: (Something roars in the distance, causing the area to rumble.) 
Poncho: What the hell is that? 
Dr. Bloom: The sphincter dam. We built it when Ruben became incontinent, but it was not designed to hold a corpse-load. 
Scene Action: (The dam is clearly close to giving way. Roger keeps working to get the growth ray active.) 
Roger: Almost got it. Everybody, move inside the circle! 
Scene Action: (Morty notices a strange, black creature in Poncho’s backpack.) 
Morty: Poncho? What is this in your backpack? 
Scene Action: (Poncho turns around to face Morty, giving Dr. Bloom a view of the creature.) 
Dr. Bloom: That’s bubonic plague! What are you doing with that, Poncho? 
Scene Action: (Poncho grabs hold of Annie and holds a knife to her throat. Annie gasps and tries to kick free.) 
Poncho: Everybody get back! 
Dr. Bloom: Poncho, you son of a bitch! You released the tuberculosis so you could steal from me? 
Poncho: *laughs* That’s right, baby. A lot of people would pay top dollar to decimate the population. I’ll take the highest bidder. Al Quaeda. North Korea. Republicans! Shriners! Balding men that work out! People on the Internet that are only turned on by cartoons of Japanese teenagers! Anything is better than working for you! *points the knife at Dr. Bloom* You pompous, negligent, iTunes Gift Card as a holiday bonus-giving— 
Morty: AHHHHH!!! 
Scene Action: (Morty leaps up and grabs onto Poncho’s helmet, allowing Annie to escape. He punches Poncho repeatedly before Poncho pulls him off his face and throws him to the ground, where Roger helps him up. Poncho laughs evilly, but stops short when Bubonic Plague bites his shoulder.) 
Poncho: Ah! Eh! Get! Get off! *he backs up and falls over the railing* Ahhhh! 
Scene Action: (The four remaining look over the edge as he falls to his death. Just then, the sphincter dam begins groaning, almost giving way.) 
Annie: You guys! 
Roger: It’s gonna burst! *urges the others on* Go! Go, go, go! *pulls a lever before trying to run after the others but catches his foot in some of the machinery* My foot is stuck! 
Scene Action: (Morty holds Annie back as she makes to help Roger.) 
Annie: No! 
Roger: This is okay! It’s okay, just go! Tell my family I love them! They may be hard to find because my wife kept her last name and she made the kids take it too, so, I dunno, you can— 
Scene Action: (Just then, the dam bursts, drowning Roger in Ruben’s excrement.) 
Annie: No! 
Scene Action: (Dr. Bloom seals the door to the chamber and Annie hugs Morty, distraught and crying.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith family living room] 
Scene Action: (Leonard, Joyce, and Beth sit on the chair and sofa, Jerry and Summer stand, and Jacob kneels with Ethan in the center of the room.) 
Jacob: Let me ask you something Ethan. Where’s the anger coming from, man? 
Ethan: From Summer being a total bitch! 
Scene Action: (Jacob takes hold of Ethan’s cheeks and forces him to make eye contact.) 
Jacob: Where’s the anger coming from? 
Ethan: …My brother… took me fishing once…in the bushes… *voice begins choking up as tears fill his eyes* I can’t… I can’t! *covers his eyes as he starts to cry* He made me feel like a girl! *sobbing openly* I’m… m-made me a girl! 
Scene Action: (Jacob helps Ethan up to his feet.) 
Jacob: He didn’t make you anything, man. You are who you are. *gestures to Summer* She is who she is. (Summer watches on with a sympathetic expression.) Now you go to her. Brand new. 
Scene Action: (Ethan walks over to Summer.) 
Ethan: Come here right now! 
Summer: Oh my god, I’m so sorry Ethan! *they hug* I love you! 
Ethan: I love you so much. 
Scene Action: (The two begin making out. Everyone claps besides Jerry.) 
Jerry: Um… 
Joyce: You did it again, cubby. Come here. 
Scene Action: (Joyce and Jacob begin to kiss. Jerry looks to the easy chair to see Leonard has gotten up and is backing into the closet, unbuttoning his shirt to reveal a Superman costume underneath.) 
Jerry: No! Stop! I hate this! 
Scene Action: (Beth, Joyce, and Jacob glare at him.) 
Joyce: Well, Christmas doesn’t revolve around what you hate, son. 
Jerry: Well then, I hate Christmas! Enjoy being human! You guys are gross and lame. 
Scene Action: (He walks out. Summer and Ethan and Joyce and Jacob continue kissing.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Scene Action: (The three survivors are in a small theater where an animatronic Ruben gives a presentation. Morty and Annie have their helmets off and are making out, and Dr. Bloom sits a few seats away eating ice cream.) 
Animatronic Ruben: My name’s Ruben Ridley. You’re inside me right now, but by the end of this journey, I’ll be inside all of you. 
Scene Action: (Dr. Bloom appears to miss every other bite of ice cream, probably due to his semi-aqueous form.) 
Animatronic Ruben: My story begins in the dot com crash in the early ‘90s. 
Scene Action: (The animatronic sparks, then goes limp.) 
Annie: *whispering to Morty* You can put your fingers wherever you want… 
Rick : Morty, you wanna put it on mute or something? (Annie and Morty both look at Morty’s helmet, startled.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Rick is working on a computer, still talking to Morty through his headset.) 
Rick: I’m trying to concentrate. 
Scene Action: (Jerry wanders to the door.) 
Jerry: Ah, Rick? 
Rick: *holds up a hand without even looking over at him* Not now, Jerry. I’ve got much, much smaller fish to fry. 
Jerry: *enters anyway* I wanted to say I’m sorry I ever judged you. *leans on the ping pong table, looking down at Ruben’s corpse* Right now, you’re my sanest relative. 
Scene Action: (Rick, who had been typing away, suddenly pauses.) 
Rick: Relative… That’s it! Relative size! Jerry, hand me a scalpel and a bundle of dynamite! *into his headset* Morty! Can you get to the left nipple? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park] 
Scene Action: (Annie is in Morty’s lap.) 
Morty: Are you kidding? I’m hoping I can get to both of them, Rick. 
Rick : Morty, I’m talkin’ about Ruben’s left nipple! 
Scene Action: (The area begins to rumble and cave in. Morty lifts Annie off his lap and both put on their helmets.) 
Morty: We need to get to the left nipple! 
Dr. Bloom: The body is decaying! (Bits of debris begin to fall from the ‘ceiling’.) The arterial transit system is useless! We can try the service shuttle. It’s connected to the skeletal system. That’s why we call it the Bone Train. *to Annie* Would you like to ride the Bone Train, miss? 
Annie: If it’ll get us out of here. 
Dr. Bloom: How about you, Morty? Would you like to ride the Bone Train? 
Morty: Why are you doing this bit? We’re gonna die. Let’s go. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Jerry looks on as Rick inserts a bundle of dynamite into an incision on Ruben’s abdomen. He takes a few steps back toward the door back to the house.) 
Jerry: Well, I can see that you’re busy… Merry Christmas, Rick. 
Scene Action: (Rick lifts Ruben’s corpse from the table and heads out to the car, dumping Ruben’s body inside.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Anatomy Park: the Bone Train] 
Dr. Bloom: There’s no autopilot. One of us will have to stay here and operate it manually. 
Scene Action: (Morty and Annie glance at each other, then look back at Dr. Bloom. Dr. Bloom glances at each of the teenagers. Morty and Annie continue staring at him.) 
Morty: …Uh, well… 
Dr. Bloom: No, you’re right. It was a dick move for me to even pause like that. This is all my fault. You go on. 
Scene Action: (Something approaches the group from a nearby set of stairs.) 
Annie: *points* What the hell is that? 
Dr. Bloom: E. coli outbreak. Hurry! 
Scene Action: (Morty and Annie jump into the shuttle as E. coli swarm the area. Dr. Bloom pulls a lever and the shuttle begins to move.) 
Dr. Bloom: Oh wait, there is an autopilot. (E. coli surround him.) WAAAIT! ...OKAY, NEVER MIND, I WANTED TO SACRIFICE MYSELF ANYWAAAAAYYYY! 
Scene Action: (As the train speeds down the track, some of the E. coli have attached themselves to the vehicle. One smashes the window of the train door and sticks its head inside.) 
Annie: They’re chewing through the doors! 
Morty: Euuuugh! *grabs a fire extinguisher and beats the E. coli off the train with it* We’re in the areola, Rick! Almost to the nipple! But we’re also in a really bad situation! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Earth’s orbit] 
Scene Action: (Rick flies his spacecraft out of Earth’s atmosphere.) 
Rick: I’m almost there, Morty! 
Scene Action: (Rick lights the end of the dynamite bundle in Ruben’s abdomen, kicks him out into space, and uses a growth ray to increase Ruben to an enormous size—large enough to make Morty and Annie their normal sizes again, but still inside him.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Earth] 
Scene Action: (Various people across America stop what they’re doing and look at the sky as Ruben’s huge, naked corpse hovers overhead.) 
Reporter: Reports are coming in from across the country about what appears to be a giant naked man over the continental United States. We now go to Tom Randolph in New York. Tom? 
Scene Action: (As Tom speaks, Ruben’s terrifyingly enormous face floats overhead.) 
Tom: Well, his eyes aren’t twinkling, and his dimples aren’t merry, but I’m standing under a nose like a seventy-mile cherry! 
Reporter: Thank you, Tom. Let’s go now to Eric McMan in Los Angeles. 
Scene Action: (Ruben’s poorly kept toes hover in the background while Eric speaks.) 
Eric: We’ve got feet here on the West Coast, Bill! Giant feet, even relative to the giant man’s size! And you know what they say about that! 
Reporter: Well, if the old adage is true, one can only wonder what is going down in the Rocky Mountains. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Rocky Mountains] 
Scene Action: (A lumberjack pauses while hacking down a tree, looks up, screams, and runs away.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Earth’s orbit] 
Scene Action: (Rick flies his ship toward the nipple.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Bone Train] 
Scene Action: (E. coli continue trying to break in, with Morty beating them away with a fire extinguisher. Running up to the front of the train, he and Annie see that Hepatitis A is has damaged the track.) 
Morty: Oh my god, the track! 
Annie: It’s Hepatitis A! 
Scene Action: (As Morty tries to slow the train down, it flies off the track and straight through some of Ruben’s soft tissue, bursting into the nipple. The train hits a bump, throwing Morty and Annie out. They look up and gasp.) 
Annie: The nipple hole… 
Scene Action: (Through the nipple hole, they’re able to see Earth as the sun peeks over the horizon.) 
Morty: It’s beautiful… 
Scene Action: (Suddenly, there’s a crash behind them. Hepatitis A bursts out from the train wreckage and lumbers towards Morty and Annie.) 
Annie: Aw no! 
Scene Action: (The two run, and just as Hepatitis A is about to catch them, Hepatitis C snatches it up and shakes it like felled prey.) 
Annie: Whoa! It’s Hepatitis C! 
Scene Action: (Hepatitis C gives them a thumbs-up before lumbering away with its kill in its mouth.) 
Morty: Um… We… Did we have some sort of relationship with him? 
Annie: I… think they’re just like that? I think they’re just good guys. 
Morty: Oh. Huh. 
Scene Action: (Rick flies his spaceship into the nipple, landing it behind them. Morty and Annie climb inside.) 
Rick: Where’s Dr. Bloom? 
Morty: Sorry Rick… He’s dead… 
Rick: Goddamn it, Morty, I ask you to do one thing! 
Scene Action: (Rick flies the spaceship out of the nipple and away from Ruben’s corpse just before the dynamite ignites and the body explodes, sending blood and gore in all directions.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith residence] 
Scene Action: (Joyce, Leonard, Jacob, Beth, Summer, and Ethan all bundle up to go sledding.) 
Beth: Jerry doesn’t know what he’s missing. 
Jacob: He’ll come around, Beth. Christmas is a special time. It has funny ways of bringing families together. 
Beth: I dunno, Jacob. Jerry got an invitation to be alive today, and he rejected it. I don’t know if our marriage will— 
Scene Action: (Beth stops talking as blood starts splattering the sliding glass doors. The whole group stares in shock as blood seems to pour from the sky.) 
Summer: It’s raining blood! 
Jacob: Listen, find Jerry! 
Beth: Oh god. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerry’s den] 
Scene Action: (Blood is raining on the window there as well. Jerry is sitting in a chair, watching the news, when the family bursts in.) 
Beth: Jerry! 
Jerry: *stands and hugs her* It’s alright! The TV says there’s nothing to worry about. 
Reporter : The giant naked sky Santa has exploded. Blood and chunks of viscera are raining down on the country. Everything should be fine. 
Scene Action: (Family sighs in relief.) 
Summer: Dad, can I have my phone back? 
Jerry: Sure, sweetie. *pulls out the stocking and gives Summer her phone, then gives Beth her tablet* Everybody, take a device. It’ll help you relax. 
Jacob: This is nice. 
Jerry: Yeah. *puts an arm around Beth and Jacob* I guess we really learned something this Christmas, Jacob. 
Summer: No we didn’t, Dad. No we didn’t. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith house] 
Scene Action: (It’s no longer raining blood, but reddish chunks of Ruben are everywhere as Rick lands his spacecraft, parking it in the garage.) 
Rick: Too bad about Dr. Bloom. *Rick, Annie, and Morty exit the car* He was a genius. The only man capable of creating a new Anatomy Park. 
Annie: Actually, I studied Dr. Bloom’s work. I believe I have the knowledge necessary to create a new, much safer park! 
Rick: What about Pirates of the Pancreas…? 
Annie: I think it was one of the most underrated attractions. 
Rick: Booyah! Hold your breath! 
Scene Action: (Annie is already standing under the shrink ray as Rick pulls the lever, shrinking her down to microscopic size once again, much to Morty’s chagrin.) 
Morty: Hey, wh-wh- What the hell, Rick? What the hell, man? I liked her! I really had somethin’ going there, Rick! 
Scene Action: (Rick pockets the container holding Annie.) 
Rick: Yeah, so I heard. You dodged a bullet, Morty, trust me. *whispers* Puffy vagina. 
Morty: W-What’s wrong with that? That doesn’t sound like a problem to me! I dunno! 
Rick: C’mon. Let’s get some stuffing, I’m starving. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith family living room] 
Scene Action: (Beth, Leonard, Summer, and Ethan sit on the couch, Jacob sits in the easy chair with Joyce in his lap, and Jerry sits on the carpet. All are staring at handheld electronics as Rick and Morty enter the room.) 
Rick: Oh, unbelievable. We got a bunch of robot computer people sittin’ around with their faces stuffed in computer screens. (No one acknowledges him.) Do you realize Christ was born today? Jesus Christ our Savior was born today! A-A-A-Are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this? 
Scene Action: (Jerry looks at the audience and shrugs.) 
Scene Action: [End Credits roll] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick’s garage] 
Annie : Hey Rick! Rick, can you hear me? 
Rick: Loud and clear, Annie. 
Annie: Great! We’re also on with Alejandro, our Chief Imaginarian— 
Alejandro: Hey Rick. 
Annie: Natalie Jacobs and Chris Desiter from Microscopic Marketing, Zach from Organ Concepts and Jamie from New Media. 
Rick: Hey everybody. 
All: Hey, hi Rick, how’s it goin’. (etc.) 
Annie: So. Pirates of the Pancreas. 
Rick: Yeah, talk to me. 
Alejandro: Hey Rick, it’s Alejandro speaking. Um, so we asked ourselves internally, we asked ourselves over here, “Okay, what does a pancreas do?” (Rick begins to look agitated.) And the answer was, does it make pirates? No. It makes insulin, you know? So we’re starting with a new— 
Scene Action: (Rick, furious, picks up and slams the phone, hanging up on the group call. Behind him, Ethan lies on a table.) 
Ethan: So those guys are inside me, huh? Like, building a park? 
Rick: Those guys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan! They’re inside you building a monument to compromise! Fuck. Fuck those people. Fuck this whole thing, Ethan. 
Ethan: … Cool. And who pays me? 
Scene Action: [END] 
Scene Action: [Open Int. Rick's garage.] 
Scene Action: (Rick is dissecting a rat.) 
Rick: T-t-t-this is just sloppy craftsmanship. 
Morty: Hey, Rick. Boy, sure is really especially beautiful out there today, huh? 
Rick: Oh, yes, Morty. It's almost unbelievable, isn't it? 
Morty: Yeah, you know? There's something about the air. And just the way the sunshine is. 
Rick: Oh, sure, buddy. Yeah. Sure. B-brilliant. Very convincing. 
Morty: Wh… convincing? 
Rick: Oh! Responsive, too! In real time! I love it! 
Morty: Uhhokay. 
Beth: *robotic* I’m going to work. Morty, good morning. Dad, good morning. I am going to work. Goodbye. (Beth drives away.) 
Morty: What's with Mom? 
Rick: Oh, what's with Mom? So, you're saying that she's acting weird? How soph—*burp*—isticated. Careful, guys. You're gonna burn out the CPU with this one. 
Morty: Okay, you know what, Rick? You're acting weird, too. 
Rick: Whatever, quote-unquote “Morty.” 
Morty: Alright, well I'll see you after school. (Walks into the side of the garage.) Ow! Oof! Ugh! Damn it! I'm all right. I'm okay. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Morty’s math class] 
Mr. Goldenfold: Alright, who can tell me what 5 x 9 is? (Students whisper.) Morty? 
Morty: Uh, me? 
Mr. Goldenfold: What is 5 x 9? 
Morty: Um, you know, it's, uh, at least 40. 
Scene Action: (Students gasp.) 
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty, that's exactly correct! 5 x 9 is at least 40! Come up here. 
Scene Action: (Students cheer.) 
Jessica: Whoo! Way to go, Morty! 
Mr. Goldenfold: Everybody, this is the best student. I want you to be the teacher today. *sits down at a desk* Teach us, Morty! 
Rick: *spying from outside* Interesting… 
Morty: W-w-w-what do you want me to teach you? 
Student: Ooh, ooh! How do you make concentrated dark matter? 
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, that's a good question. 
Morty: Concentrated huh? 
Mr. Goldenfold: Concentrated dark matter. The fuel for accelerated space travel. Now, do you know how to make it? 
Morty: Uhhh… 
Jessica: Come on, Morty. Isn't your grandpa, like, a scientist? 
Morty: Oh, yeah, but, you know, he told me that I shouldn't go around spouting off about, you know, his science and stuff. 
Jessica: I bet you've seen him make concentrated dark matter a lot. You know, if you tell us, I’ll be your girlfriend. 
Morty: Uh, y-you will? 
Mr. Goldenfold: Seems like a rare opportunity, Morty. 
Rick: *kicks open the door* Morty, u-uh, come on. There's a family emergency. 
Scene Action: (Rick grabs Morty by one arm. Mr. Goldenfold grabs the other.) 
Mr. Goldenfold: Stop right there! If he leaves, I'm giving him an F! 
Rick: He doesn't care. 
Morty: Aw, man! (Rick drags him to the locker room.) Rick, I have to go back! I think I was about to get married! *falls down* Ugh! 
Rick: Take a shower with me, Morty. 
Morty: What?! 
Rick: Listen to me, Morty. Get your clothes off and get in the shower right now. *strips* Y-y-y-you got to trust me, Morty. 
Morty: Ugh! I'm gonna get an F in class, Rick. *strips* 
Rick: Morty, that's not class. T-t-t-that wasn't your teacher. This isn't your school. This entire world is not the world. We're inside a huge simulation chamber on an alien spaceship. 
Morty: Wait a minute. W-what are you talking about? 
Rick: It’s all fake *burps* Morty, all of it. Nanobotic renderings, a bunch of… crazy, fake nonsense, Morty. I couldn't say so until we got in the shower. They won't monitor us in here. 
Morty: Monitor us?! *looks around and tries to cover himself* W-who?! 
Rick: Zigerion scammers, Morty. The galaxy's most ambitious, least successful con artists. You know, it's lucky for us they're also really uncomfortable with nudity. 
Morty: Aw, come on, Rick. If everyone’s just gonna be insane today, at least let me be insane with Jessica. 
Rick: I can’t let you do that, Morty. 
Scene Action: (Rick grabs Morty’s clothes and they begin fighting over them.) 
Morty: Give it to me! 
Rick: No! You give it to me! 
Morty: G-g-give it! 
Rick: Morty, come on! Morty! 
Morty: No, Rick! 
Scene Action: [View of simulated world expands out to reveal they’re in an enormous spacecraft.] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Zigerion control room] 
Scene Action: (Zigerions groan and look away from the monitors with disgust.) 
Zigerion 1: Oh, god, sir! They're still naked! Ugh. 
Prince Nebulon: Well, check every five quintons and tell me when they're not! 
Zigerion 1: I think we should make Kevin look, sir. 
Kevin: What?! No! W-w-why would you even say that? 
Stu: Uh, sir, we have a situation over here. 
Prince Nebulon: If there's a wiener on that monitor, I swear to god, Stu. 
Stu: Something is drawing a lot of processing power. Oh, wait. No wonder. (Jerry appears on a large screen.) There's another real human in the simulator. 
Jerry: Okay, Jerry, big pitch meeting. Make-or-break time. *trims nostril hairs while driving* You can do this. 
Prince Nebulon: How did this happen?! Where's the Abductions Department? 
Zigerion 2: Hey, man, Abductions just follows the acquisition order. 
Zigerion 3: Don't put this on Acquisitions! We only acquire humans that haven't been simulated! 
Kevin: Well, Simulations doesn't simulate anybody that's been abducted, so— 
Prince Nebulon: Oh, I see! Oh, oh! It was no one's fault. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Well, then, problem solved. Oh, wait no. *shouts* There's still another human in here! Who is he? 
Stu: Rick's son-in-law, Jerry Smith. So far, he hasn't noticed he's in a simulation. 
Prince Nebulon: *sighs* Well, cap his sector at 5% processing, keep his settings on auto, and we'll deal with him later. Rick Sanchez is the target. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerry’s car] 
Jerry: *inhales deeply* Gotta relax. It's just a pitch. Gotta relax. 
Scene Action: (He turns on the radio.) 
Radio: This is earth radio. And now, here's…human music. 
Scene Action: (Repetitive rhythmic beeping.) 
Jerry: Hmm. Human music. I like it. *rocks head side to side in rhythm with the music* 
Scene Action: [Pan out to see Jerry’s sector of the simulation, followed by a transition to Rick and Morty’s.] 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty pant as they run naked down the street. Rick shoves their clothes into a sewer.) 
Morty: Rick! 
Rick: Uhp, uhp, uhp! Morty, keep your hands off your ding-dong! It's the only way we can speak freely. Look around you, Morty. Do you really think this world is real? You'd have to be an idiot not to notice all the sloppy details. Look, that guy's putting a bun between two hot dogs. 
Morty: I don't know, Rick. I mean, I’ve seen people do that before. 
Rick: Well, look at that old lady. She's, she's walking a cat on a leash. 
Morty: Uh, Mrs. Spencer does that all the time, Rick. 
Rick: Look, I-I-I don't wanna hear about Mrs. Spencer, Morty! She's an idiot! Alright, alright, there. W-what about that, Morty? 
Scene Action: (A Poptart walks out of a toaster house and into a toaster car before driving away.) 
Morty: Okay, okay, you got me on that one. 
Rick: Oh, really, Morty? Are you sure you haven't seen that somewhere in real life before? 
Morty: No, no. I haven't seen that. I mean, why would a Poptart wanna live inside a toaster, Rick? I mean, that would be, like, the scariest place for them to live. You know what I mean? 
Rick: You're missing the point, Morty. Why would he drive a smaller toaster with wheels? I mean, does your car look like a smaller version of your house? No. 
Morty: So, why are they doing this? W-what do they want?  
Rick: Well, that would be obvious to you, Morty, if you'd been paying attention. 
Scene Action: (Siren wails. Ambulance drives up to them and the doors open.) 
Paramedic: We got the president of the United States in here! We need 10cc of concentrated dark matter, stat, or he'll die! 
Scene Action: (Rick slams the ambulance doors shut and starts walking off.) 
Morty: Concentrated dark matter! They were asking about that in class. 
Rick: Yeah, it's a special fuel I invented to travel through space faster than anybody else. These Zigerions are always trying to scam me out of my secrets, but they made a big mistake this time, Morty. They dragged you into this. Now they're gonna pay! 
Morty: Wait, wha, w-w-what are we gonna do? 
Rick: We'll scam the scammers, Morty. And we're gonna take them for everything they've got. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Ad agency] 
Scene Action: (Trees flicker with a static noise) 
Jerry: National Apple Farmers of America… 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Ad agency] 
Jerry: Welcome to our ad agency. I'm Jerry Smith. (Audience stares blankly.) Alright. I'll just get to the pitch. Um, simple question, gentlemen, *hoarsely* what are apples? *clears throat* Excuse me. *drinks some water* Ahh. *coughs, clears throat* What are apples? *pulls poster board to the front of the room* Apples are food. And when do we need food? When we're hungry. (Audience stares blankly.) With that, I give you your new slogan! (Flips paper to reveal sign saying “Hungry for Apples?” Audience continues staring.) Well, say something! Do you like it? 
Mr. Marklevitz: Yes. 
Jerry: You do? 
All: Yes. 
Jerry: So I sold it? I sold the idea? 
All: Yes. 
Jerry: Oh my god! Thank you! 
All: *shaking each others’ hands* Thank you. You're welcome. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Ad agency] 
Scene Action: (“Baker Street” plays as Jerry slides down a handrail.) 
Jerry: Hey! I just sold my first pitch! 
Old man: Slow down! 
Woman: Lookin' good. 
Mailman: My man! 
Scene Action: (Jerry dials on his cellphone. As he walks, he passes the same three people repeatedly.) 
Simulation Beth: (at Simulation Smith house) *answers phone* Hello. 
Jerry: Guess who just sold the apples campaign. 
Simulation Beth: Who just sold the apples campaign? 
Jerry: Me! I guess it wasn't a rip-off of "got milk?" after all. Guess someone was wrong. 
Simulation Beth: Yes. 
Jerry: Well, all is forgiven, because right now, I’ve got an erection the size of an East Coast lighthouse, and I’m coming home to share it with my beautiful wife. 
Simulation Beth: Okay. 
Jerry: Wait, really? 
Simulation Beth: Yes. 
Jerry: Yes! See you in 10 minutes! *hangs up, shouts* Hey! I'm going to make love to my wife! 
Woman: Lookin' good. 
Old man: Slow down! 
Mailman: My man! *glitches into a tree* 
Scene Action: [Trans. Backstage] 
Scene Action: (Rick is decked out in chains and adjusts his clothes to look more disheveled.) 
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick. I-I don't know if I like this plan,you know? I mean, crowds, t-t-t-they have a tendency to make me really nervous. 
Rick: Morty, relax. It's just a bunch of 1s and 0s out there. You're gonna be fine. (Lowers Morty’s pants slightly and puts a hat on him.) Just follow my lead. (Rick and Morty fist bump.) Yo, deejay, drop that beat. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Stage in park] 
Scene Action: (Hip-hop beat plays. Crowd cheers.) 
Rick: Uh-oh, Morty. This crowd looks too small for one of our famous rap concerts. I don't think we can perform our new song, "The Recipe for Concentrated Dark Matter," for a crowd this tiny. 
Morty: You got that right, Rick. 
Scene Action: (Hordes of people appear from all directions and congregate in the park.) 
Rick: Now that’s more like it! Morty, here we go. Let me hear everybody say "hey-oh!" yeah! (Crowd cheers.) All the ladies say, "yeah!" (Ladies cheer.) Everybody over thirty, do this with your hands! Everybody with a red shirt, jump up and down! (People start glitching.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith house] 
Jerry: *kisses Beth, who is still in front of the phone* Mm. Mm. Mm. Yeah, don't move. Mm, mm, mm, mm! Mm! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Park] 
Rick: Yo, everyone whose first name begins with an "L" who isn't Hispanic, walk in a circle the same number of times as the square root of your age times ten! (Simulation freezes. Rick and Morty jump offstage.) Run, Morty! Before the system reboots! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Smith house.] 
Jerry: Yeah! You like that? Now who's unremarkable? You hungry for apples? Are you hungry for apples?! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Beth and Jerry’s bedroom.] 
Scene Action: (Jerry lies in bed beside Beth, who is frozen in place.) 
Jerry: Oh, my god. That's the best sex I've ever had in my life. It's… it's too good. I don't deserve this, Beth. I'm a fraud. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick and Morty running through frozen simulation.] 
Morty: Oh, man, Rick! W-w-w-where we running to? 
Rick: Out of the simulation, Morty. Normally, the chamber operates like a treadmill, with the virtual world disappearing behind us and being rendered in front of us as we move through it, but while it's frozen, Morty, we can get to…the edge. Here we go. *jumps off the edge* 
Morty: Holy crap! 
Rick: Come on, Morty. 
Morty: *jumps off edge* 
Scene Action: [Trans. Control room] 
Zigerion: Sir, they're over the edge. 
Prince Nebulon: Yes, they are. Just as planned. *evil laughter, others join in* Oh, this is going to be such a mindfuck! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Corridor in spacecraft] 
Rick: Keep your eyes peeled for the central processing room, Morty. That's how we're gonna scam these idiots. 
Morty: So, hey, why do these aliens keep coming after you, Rick, if you're so much smarter than them? 
Rick: It's an obsession for them at this point. The Zigerions have been trying to outsmart me for years, Morty. Every time they do, I'm one step ahead of them. *finds central processing room* Aha! Here we go. *starts collecting chips* Grab as many processors as you can carry, Morty. These guys aren't good at much, but they're really good at making these chips. 
Morty: I’ve got so many, I can barely hold them all! *holding chips in his shirt* Look at, look at this. Oops. I dropped one. 
Rick: Don't worry about it, Morty. There's plenty of them, you little goofball. (Both laugh and toss chips at each other playfully.) Come here, Morty! Oh, I gotcha! 
Morty: Come on, quit it, Rick! Quit it! 
Rick: Nothing wrong with just a little bit of horseplay every now and then, little fella. 
Scene Action: (They sneak towards the escape pods. Rick throws a chip and distracts the guards while they steal a pod and fly away.) 
Morty: Wow. What do you know? Huh. That was easy. 
Rick: Totes malotes, dawg. 
Morty: Just kind of hard to believe, you know? 
Rick: Believe it, Morty. And once again, I'm flying away with everything I can carry, and the Zigerions got nothing of mine. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerry’s boss’s office] 
Jerry: Mr. Marklevitz, do you have a minute to talk? 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Look, I’m a fraud. I mean, let's face it. "Hungry for apples" is just a rip-off of "Got milk?" It's almost identical. 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Okay. I deserve that. Um, I guess I'll just pack up my desk. 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: *crying* Oh my god. Wait. You know what?! No! The milk people don't have a patent on simple rhetorical questions! Y-You— There's not even a single word in "Hungry for Apples" that's shared by "Got milk?" It's a completely different slogan. It's different! And I shouldn't be fired. I should be promoted! 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Yeah! Wait. Really? 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Yes! I mean, it may be derivative, but it's the most successful campaign to come out of this agency in a long time. 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: I-I’m not saying it should win an award for commercials, but it could certainly be nominated for an award for commercials specifically about apples, like an Appley or something. 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Is there really an award called the Appley for apple-related ad campaigns? 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Could we nominate me? 
Mr. Marklevitz: *snaps fingers* Yes. 
Jerry: Holy crap! 
Scene Action: (Jerry runs out. Mr. Marklevitz glitches.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Smith house] 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty get out of the escape pod and head into the garage with the chips.) 
Rick: Get in, Morty. I'm gonna be able to use these processors to make some real important science stuff. (Keypad beeps.) Huh. I thought I entered the code right. (Keypad beeps.) 
Scene Action: (Second level simulation vanishes.) 
Prince Nebulon: Well, what's this? W-what could this possibly be? Because it looks like you're inside a simulation…inside a simulation. You're still on the ship. Game-day bucket go boom! 
Cynthia: Sir, the, uh, doctor's appointment to examine the discoloration on your butthole flaps was— 
Prince Nebulon: Too loud, Cynthia. Too loud and too specific. 
Rick: Uhh… 
Prince Nebulon: We've known how to make concentrated dark matter for a long time. But now we also know the code to your fabled safe, Rick Sanchez! All your most valuable secrets will now be ours! 
Rick: Uh, yeah, until I get home before you and change the combination, you bunch of idiots! 
Prince Nebulon: That is why you're never getting home. Get them! 
Scene Action: (Guards try to grab Rick and Morty. Rick pulls down Morty’s pants and all the Zigerions back away in disgust.) 
Rick: RUN MORTY! 
Scene Action: (Morty pulls up his pants. They run through the spacecraft and are chased by Zigerions.) 
Morty: Oh my god! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Appley Awards] 
Jerry: I got to tell you, this morning, I didn't even know this award existed. Now I'm holding one. And, um… Look, I want to say that today was the best day of my life But the truth is, it's, it's more meaningful than that. 
Mailman: My man! 
Jerry: Yes. Thank you, sir. I am finally complete! 
Scene Action: (Everyone glitches into the mailman.) 
Mailmen: My my my my man! 
Scene Action: (Simulation continues glitching badly.) 
Jerry: Aah! What the hell?! (Appley award glitches out of existence.) No. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty run into the room.) 
Rick: Jerry?! 
Morty: Dad! 
Rick: What are you doing here? W-why are you dressed like a waiter? Screw it. We don't have time. Come on. *starts dragging Jerry with them* 
Jerry: *sobbing* No! 
Scene Action: (Chase continues. The three make it onto a spaceship.) 
Rick: Man up, Jerry! I may need you to work the lasers. 
Morty: Oh, man! They're hot on our tail, Rick! 
Rick: I guess they really do have concentrated dark matter. 
Morty: Well, you know how to make it, too, right, Rick? 
Rick: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, check the engine room. We just need cesium, Plutonic quarks, and bottled water. 
Morty: Whoa! It's all here, Rick! 
Rick: Wow, Morty. Lucky break. Grab that bucket. Okay, two parts Plutonic quarks, one part cesium. 
Morty: Okay. Uh-huh. Alright. 
Rick: Now empty the water bottle into the bucket and pour it all into the fuel tank so we can get the hell out of here! What are you doing, Morty?! There's no time! 
Morty: *freezes up* 
Rick: Oh, no. 
Scene Action: (Simulation breaks down...again.) 
Jerry: What the…? 
Rick: No! 
Prince Nebulon: *laughing* Oh my god, Rick. How dumb are you? You're inside a simulation of a simulation…inside another giant simulation! *laughs harder* W-we never had the recipe for concentrated dark matter. But we do now! We do now, sucka! 
Rick: You simulated my grandson's genitalia?! Y-y-you bunch of diabolical sons of bitches! 
Zigerion 1: Kevin fought real hard to supervise that project. 
Kevin: You said you weren't gonna tell anyone! I'm never gonna live this down, am I? 
Rick: All right. Okay. All right, great. Wonderful. You win. Can we go home now? 
Zigerion 1: I don't know. Can you? 
Prince Nebulon: Ha! *fist bumps* Nice. Okay, okay. Show this gullible turd to his shuttle. I'm done with him. Oh, wait. Let me get a picture. *snaps a selfie of himself with Rick* Aww. Look at his face. He's trying to figure out if He's in a simulation still. Are you, Rick? Are you? *laughs, walks away* You're not. *walks back* Or are you? (Rick and Jerry leave.) *shouts after them* Oh, a-and, by the way, I don't have discolored butthole flaps. That was part of the simulation. 
Cynthia: Oh. Uh, sir, should I cancel that appointment, then? 
Prince Nebulon: *loudly* Yeah! Of course you should! *to Cynthia* No, keep it. Move it up, actually, if you can. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Shuttle to Earth] 
Rick: Hey, Jerry, don't worry about it. So what if the most meaningful day of your life was a simulation operating at minimum capacity? 
Jerry: You know what, Rick? Those guys took you for a ride, too. You should try having a little respect for the dummies of the universe, now that you're one of us. 
Rick: Maybe you're right, Jerry. Maybe you're right. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Zigerion space craft, control room] 
Scene Action: (The Zigerions are celebrating their victory with a party.) 
Prince Nebulon: All right, everybody. Two parts Plutonic quarks… One part cesium…. A-and listen, I’m sorry for shouting earlier. I-I couldn't ask for a better staff. I love you guys, and I love all your families. *readies water bottle* And the final ingredient… 
Scene Action: (Zigerion spacecraft explodes.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Shuttle to Earth] 
Scene Action: (Jerry looks behind them, shocked.) 
Jerry: Whoa! What the hell?! W-what happened back there? 
Rick: Why don't you ask the smartest people in the universe, Jerry? Oh, yeah. You can't. They blew up. 
Scene Action: (“Baker Street” plays. Rick vocalizes the saxophone part.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Ad agency] 
Scene Action: (Jerry pitches “Hungry for Apples” in reality.) 
Jerry: So… What do you think? 
Mr. Marklevitz: You're fired. 
Jerry: Wha--? But t-this idea was tested in a state-of-the-art simulation. 
Mr. Marklevitz: Well, then, it was a terrible simulation. Get out. 
Scene Action: (Jerry hangs his head and leaves.) 
Mr. Marklevitz: Man, how does a guy like that go home and have sex with his wife? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Morty’s bedroom] 
Rick: Hey, Morty. 
Morty: What? 
Rick: Hey, little buddy. H-h-how you doing in here right now? 
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick. What are you doing, man? 
Rick: Y-y-you're a good kid, Morty. Y-you're a real l-little c-character, Morty. 
Morty: Oh, boy. 
Rick: You know, I had a really rocky road today, M-Morty. You're my little friend, aren't you? We had some good times together, huh, M-Morty? We You're a real true hero out in the field. You're a... You're a real trouper, huh, M-M-Morty? 
Morty: Have you been drinking, Rick? 
Rick: I really appreciate you, Morty. 
Morty: O-okay, cool. A-alright, Rick 
Rick: *suddenly aggressive, holds a knife to Morty’s throat* You little son of a bitch! Y-y- are you a simulation?! Huh?! Are you a simulation?! 
Morty: No! No! No! 
Rick: You little son of a bitch! 
Morty: *terrified, gasps* 
Scene Action: (Rick lowers the knife) 
Rick: I-I-I’m sorry, Morty. Y-you're a good… You're a good kid, Morty. 
Morty: Geez! 
Rick: Y-you're a good… You're a good kid. *passes out* 
Morty: Oh my god! 
Rick: *snores* 
Morty: W-w-what the hell? What a life. 
Scene Action: [Open Ext. Damaged space station, likely in another dimension] 
Scene Action: (The sky is purple and tumultuous as the sounds of Rick and Morty running and panting are heard.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Space station] 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty run through the abandoned station, pursued by evil clones of Jerry, Beth, and Summer.) 
Rick: Run! 
Jerry, Beth, and Summer: *incoherent zombie noises* 
Scene Action: (The three clones tackle Rick, knocking a device from his hand. Morty stands by, unsure of what to do.) 
Rick: Morty, do it! Hit the button now! 
Morty: I can’t do it, Rick! They’re my parents and sister! 
Rick: *holding off the clones* Morty, I already told you, it’s not your family! They’re clones from an alternate reality possessed by demonic alien spirits from another dimension’s future! Do you need a mnemonic device or something? Just hit the button already! 
Scene Action: (Beth’s clone leaves Rick and approaches Morty, panting viciously until she gets close, and she seemingly becomes her normal self again.) 
Beth: Morty, please. I love you, sweetheart. 
Morty: Ohhhh… 
Scene Action: (Morty hesitates a second longer before darting past Beth. He glances up at the clones, then covers his eyes as he hits a button on the wall, creating an energy field that destroys the clones, whose faces seem to melt. Morty watches, horrified. As soon as they’re gone, Rick jumps to his feet and grabs the device that absorbed the spirits, apparently unbothered by the entire event.) 
Rick: Good work, Morty. 
Scene Action: (He creates a portal and jumps through.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Garage] 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty leap through the other end of the portal back to the Smith residence.) 
Rick: *holding up the device and smiling* Y-You know, these demonic alien spirits are really valuable! 
Scene Action: (Screen pans out to show that Morty is vomiting in the corner. Rick glances at him and puts the box away.) 
Rick: You okay, Morty? Told you not to trust that tuna. 
Morty: I just killed my family! I don’t care what they were! 
Rick: I dunno, Morty. Some people would pay top dollar for that kinda breakthrough. 
Morty: Y-You know what, Rick? That’s it! I-I’m done with these…insane adventures! That was really traumatizing! I quit! I’m out! 
Scene Action: (Morty turns and starts to walk out of the garage.) 
Rick: Whoa whoa whoa, *grabs Morty’s shoulder, stopping him* come on, Morty! D-D-Don’t be like that! The universe is a crazy and chaotic place! 
Morty: *pushes Rick’s hands away* You’re the one that’s crazy and chaotic! Adventures are supposed to be simple! And fun! 
Rick: Oh yeah, Morty. Yeah, t-t-that- that’s real easy to say from the sidekick position. But—But, uh, h-how about next time you be in charge, then we’ll talk about how simple and fun it is. 
Morty: *suddenly excited* Seriously Rick?! Y-You’ll let me call the shots? 
Rick: Okay, fine. But let’s make it interesting, Morty. I-I-If your adventure sucks, and we bail halfway through it, you lose the right to bitch about all future adventures. Plus, you have to do my laundry for a month. 
Morty: Okay, all right, tough guy! But if my adventure's good... I get to be in charge of every third adventure! 
Rick: Every 10th. 
Morty: Deal. All right. Well, come on, let's get going. 
Beth: Dad, the dishwasher's doing that thing again. 
Rick: Washing dishes? 
Beth: No. The opposite. Can you fix it? 
Summer: Grandpa Rick, can you help me with my science homework? 
Rick: Yeah just don't do it. 
Summer: Grandpa! 
Jerry: Hey, Rick, you got some kind of hand-shaped device that can open this mayonnaise jar? 
Rick: Wow. Hat trick. All right, Morty, let's put a pin in this. I got to help your pathetic family. 
Morty: Oh, that sounds like something a chicken would say. Bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk, bawk. 
Rick: Oh, Morty, you done did it this time. It's on. I can't wait to watch your adventure lay a huge fart. As for you dingdongs... This is a Meeseeks box. Let me show you how it works. You press this. 
Scene Action: (meeseeks spawns) 
Meeseeks: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! 
Rick: You make a request. Mr. Meeseeks, open Jerry's stupid mayonnaise jar. 
Meeseeks: Yes, siree! 
Scene Action: (Meeseeks grabs mayonnaise jar as rick explains.) 
Rick: The Meeseeks fulfills the request. 
Scene Action: (Meeseeks opens jar and hands to jerry.) 
Meeseeks: All done! 
Jerry: [amazed] Wow! 
Rick: And then it stops existing. 
Scene Action: (Meeseek vanishes into particles in air.) 
Summer: Oh, my God, he exploded! 
Rick: Trust me, they're fine with it. Knock yourselves out just keep your requests simple. They're not gods. 
Morty: All right! Get out of here now! Everybody out of here! I got a bet to win! 
Scene Action: (Beth, Jerry and Summer in the livingroom) 
Beth: So many possibilities. 
Summer: My mind is racing. 
Jerry: If we're gonna use this thing, which I'm not even sure we should, we need to keep it simple.  
Scene Action: (Summer spawns a meeseek)  
Meeseeks: I'm Mr. Meeseeks!  
Summer: I want to be popular at school!  
Meeseeks: Ooh, okay!  
Jerry: Summer, what did I just-  
Scene Action: (Beth spawns a meeseek) 
Meeseeks 2: Ooh, I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!  
Beth: I want I want to be a more complete woman!  
Jerry: Beth!  
Meeseeks 2: Oh, yeah! Yes, ma'am! 
Jerry: You guys are doing it wrong. He said "simple."  
Scene Action: (Jerry spawns a meeseeks) 
Meeseeks 3: Hey, there. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! 
Jerry: Mr. Meeseeks, I would like to take two strokes off my golf game. 
Meeseeks 3: Ooh, yeah! Can do!  
Jerry: Nailed it.  
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick and Morty in a poor village somewhere in the universe. It looks like a place from the 1700's) 
Rick: God, Morty, what a boring start to an adventure. Why didn't we just go to Kentucky?  
Morty: Rick, this is a fantasy-type world with creatures and all sorts of fantasy things. We're going on a quest, okay? 
Rick: Can't wait.  
Scene Action: (Morty stands on something tall to speak to the people) 
Morty: Ahem. Excuse me! We are two humble heroes in search of adventure! 
Rick: Oh, my God, so embarrassing. 
Villager : At last! Two heroes! You must help us! This village is terribly poor, yet the giant that lives in the clouds above has untold treasures! 
Morty: You know what? I accept your call to adventure, good sir, kind sir. Come on, Rick. There's a giant in the clouds! 
Rick: Yeah. Beginner's luck. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Meeseeks 1 speaking to the students of Summer's school in the gym) 
Meeseeks 1: In conclusion, a friendship with Summer Smith is the most valuable and enriching experience of your young lives. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! Thank you! 
Principal Gene V.: Uh, Mr. Meeseeks, was it? Yeah. Gene Vagina. Listen, I'm in a bit of custody thing with my ex and was wondering- (Meeseeks 1 stops existing)- No, I'll get your info from Summer. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Beth and Meeseeks 2 at a restaurant sitting outside) 
Beth: I got pregnant at 17. I mean, I still put myself through veterinary school. Yes, I'm successful, but what if I hadn't...-(Meeseeks 2 stares attentively)- I'm just saying, somewhere along the way, I lost that wide-eyed girl from muskegon. 
Meeseeks 2: She's still there, Beth. 
Beth: Well, her waistline isn't. 
Meeseeks 2: Beth, having a family doesn't mean that you stop being an individual. You know the best thing you can do for people that depend on you? Be honest with them, even if it means setting them free.  
Beth: You're saying I should leave Jerry. (Beth starts to cry) I can't believe I'm finally having this conversation. 
Scene Action: (Meeseeks 2 stops existing as Beth leans in to kiss him) 
Waiter : More wine? 
Beth: I think I've had enough. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Jerry at a golf course with Meeseeks 3) 
Meeseeks 3: Remember to square your shoulders, Jerry.  
Jerry: Yeah, yeah. I got it. 
Scene Action: (Jerry misses the ball completely) 
Meeseeks 3: That's okay. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! Try again and keep your head down. 
Jerry: Okay, well, which is it? Square my shoulders or keep my head down? 
Meeseeks 3: Well, it's both. But most importantly, you got to relax. 
Jerry: You know what, Mr. Meeseeks? I don't think this is working. I give up.  
Meeseeks 3 : I'm sorry, Jerry, but it doesn't work like that. I'm Mr. Meeseeks. I have to fulfill my purpose so I can go away. Look at me. 
Jerry: Well, make yourself comfortable, because I suck.  
Meeseeks 3: No, Jerry, I'm the one who SUCKS! Let me try something. 
Scene Action: (Meeseeks 3 spawns in another Meeseek) 
Meeseeks 4: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! 
Meeseeks 3: Hi, Mr. Meeseeks! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me. 
Meeseeks 4: Hi!  
Meeseeks 3: Can you help me get two strokes off of Jerry's golf swing? 
Meeseeks 4: Can do! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Is he keeping his shoulders squared?  
Meeseeks 3: Ooh, he's trying! 
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick and Morty on a table in a giant building) 
Rick: All right, Morty. We're in your stupid giant's castle. What do we do next? 
Morty: Would you just relax, Rick? All we got to do is find the treasure room, okay? It's nice and simple. You know, I'm sorry everything's going so smoothly and adventurously. 
Scene Action: (A giant can be heard walking down the hall) 
Rick : Uh-oh, Morty. Startin' to get a little hairy. What do you want to do, boss? 
Morty: Come on, hurry. Behind this cookie jar. 
Giant: Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum! 
Rick: Just give up, Morty. This is game over. I'll take us home right now. You just say the word. 
Morty: No way, Rick. This is all part of it. Adventures have conflict. Deal with it. 
Giant: I smell the blood of- whoop!(the giant falls and cracks his head open on the table corner before hitting the ground) 
Morty: Holy crap. 
Rick: Oh, boy. He looks pretty bad down there, Morty. Looks like he's bleeding out. 
Scene Action: (A giant woman walks in holding a baby) 
Giant woman: Oh, Jesus! Dale! You sons of bitches! Oh, man. Hello, 911? My husband has been attacked by tiny people! He's dying!  
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick and Morty at a giant jail and getting mug shots) 
Detective: Hey, look, we get it. You're little, you're down on your luck, you think, "hey, he's a giant. Why don't we break into his home, rob him, and murder him?" 
Morty: Th-th but that's not how it went down! 
Detective: Oh, well, it's going down like that. You're both going down like that. 
Rick: Ooh, boy, Morty, you're really showing me how it's done. Real straightforward and fun. 
Scene Action: (Cut to the Smith dinning room and living room where Jerry is still frustrated, while Summer and Beth look much happier) 
Summer: Like, letting go of the need to be popular is what makes people like you. 
Beth: The most important love you can receive is from yourself.  
Scene Action: (Several meeseeks now fill the livingroom, trying to help) 
Meeseek: Okay, Jerry, you got to just choke up on the club!  
Jerry: Well, which is it, choke up or follow-through?!  
Meeseek: Aww, come on, Jerry, we've been over this. You know you got to do both! This is as frustrating for us as it is for you. 
Jerry: Don't tell me that! That just puts pressure on me!  
Meeseek: Just try to relax. 
Jerry: You try to relax! Have you ever tried to relax?! It is a paradox! (Jerry walks to the dinning room) Ugh, these Meeseeks, huh? Kind of a handful. I can't imagine what you two must be going through. 
Beth: Our Meeseeks have been gone for hours, Jerry.  
Jerry: You're kidding me.  
Beth: Notice anything different? 
Jerry: I'm sorry. Hours?  
Summer: Dad, mom is a beautiful woman! Look at her! You will lose her!  
Meeseek: Uhh... Hey, Jerry, you mind if we get back to the task at hand? Meeseeks don't usually have to exist this long. It's getting weird. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick and Morty in a giant courthouse) 
Judge: Order in the court! Before the jury reaches its verdict, I just want to say that I consider you both very guilty. 
Rick : Oh, great adventure, buddy. Rick and Morty go to giant prison. You know, if somebody drops the soap, it's gonna land on our heads and crush our spines, Morty. You know, it'll be really easy to rape us after that. 
Morty: We're gonna be okay, Rick. 
Rick: How? They took my portal gun. This is an open-and-shut case, Morty. You know, what do you think's gonna happen, some magical angel's gonna show up and then-(the court doors burst open and a giant in a suit walks down the isle.) 
Giant Lawyer: Fee! Fi! Fo! Fum! I smell the violation of civil liberties! Your honor, I'm from a tiny-persons advocacy group and I have here in my hand a motion to dismiss. These little men were never read their giant rights and are therefore free-fi to fo-home. 
Scene Action: (Murmers of confusion spread throughout the court) 
Rick: W-what the hell is he talking about? 
Giant Lawyer: They're free to go, is what I meant. I'm deconstructing our our our thing we say. We're giants. Nobody got that? Whatever. 
Morty: Oh, man, what did I tell you, Rick? We did it! 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty appear outside the courthouse) 
Rick: All right, Morty, looks like the portal gun's still working. You ready to head home? 
Morty: Oh, yeah, you'd like that, wouldn't you, Rick? Well, you know what? We're not bailing out just yet. You know, we're gonna go find some treasure or something and and we're gonna bring it to those villagers. 
Rick: Morty, cut your losses. This is obviously awash.  
Morty: Yeah, you were saying that back when we first got arrested, but here we are, you know, walking down the courthouse steps. 
Scene Action: (They look down the stairs and see that each step is as tall as a large building. The stairs seem to go on forever) 
Rick: Oh, boy, Morty. 
Morty: Usually, walking down the courthouse steps is the easy part of the adventure. 
Rick: What do you say, Morty? 
Morty: I say give me a hand, sidekick. 
Scene Action: (Cut to the Smith livingroom. Dozens of meeseeks fill the room whinning, groaning and desperatly trying to help Jerry.) 
NOTE: to make this easier an * will be put next to meeseek everytime a different meeseeks talks. 
Jerry: Everybody shut up! Let me try! (Jerry swings and misses again) Damn it! Damn it! Damn it!  
Beth: I'm going out. 
Jerry: Wait. What? 
Beth: Well, you're busy. I'm hungry. I thought I'd go out. Do you want me to be happy or do you want me to be in prison? 
Jerry: Whoa, whoa, where in the hell is, I'll take you to dinner. 
All the Meeseeks: AWWWWWWW! 
Jerry: Hey, you know what? It's hard being me, too. I'll be right there. Look, I've got a marriage to keep together. At this point, my golf swing is more your problem than mine. 
Scene Action: (Exit Beth and Jerry) 
Meeseek: I can't take it anymore. I just want to die! 
Meeseek *: We all want to die! We're Meeseeks! Why did you even rope me into this? 
Meeseek *: 'Cause he roped me into this!  
Meeseek *: Well, him over there, he roped me into this!  
Meeseek *: Well, he roped me into this! 
Meeseek *: Well, what about me? He roped me into this. 
Meeseek *: Well, that one over there roped me into this.  
Meeseek *: Well, he roped me into this. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick and Morty climbing down a step like it's a mountian) 
Rick: Yeah, Morty, this is the part of the story everybody loves scaling down 650,000 oversized steps. 
Morty: All right, okay, you know, if this was a story, this part wouldn't be included, stupid. (They see an opening in one of the steps)  Hey, Rick, what do you know? Look down there. Looks like some kind of tavern or something built right into the side of the step. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty appear in the tavern) 
Morty: Oh, wow, Rick. Now, this is more like it. Look, there's little staircase-shaped people in here. All kinds of crazy characters. This place is great, you know? It's whimsical and fun. 
Scene Action: (Rick sees a creature staring at him) 
Rick: What are you looking at, mother-  
Morty: Easy, Rick. 
Scene Action: A strange looking waitress with large boobs greets them at their table) 
Waitress: Pay them no mind. Those stair goblins can be moody. Now, what can I getcha? We've got skarlog poppies, flurlow, halzingers, bloogies, juicy time babies.  
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah, how about some scotch whiskey? You got any of that around here? Or just a bunch of nonsense words? 
Morty: Rick... We'll have two bloogies, please. And, uh, we were wondering, is there a faster way two heroes could get down these stairs? 
Slippery: Y'all need to ride down the stairs? My name is slippely-slippery stair. I'll take you down there for 25 shmeckels. 
Rick: 25 shmeckels? I don't know how much I don't know what that is. Is that a lot? Is it a little? 
Waitress: That's exactly how much I spent on my big fake boobies. 
Mr. Booby Buyer: Hi, I'm Mr. Booby Buyer. I'll buy those boobies for 25 shmeckels.  
Waitess: It's a tempting offer, but I'm gonna have to decline.  
Mr. Booby Buyer: Rats! What a shame. 
Rick: Morty, your adventure's in a spiral. For real, man, time to pull out. 
Morty: You keep heckling my adventure, Rick! You know why? 
Rick: Uh, because it's lame? 
Morty: It's because you're petty! You know, how many times have I had to follow you into some nonsensical bull crap? I always roll with the punches, Rick. Why can't you? Look, I got to take a leak, and when I come back, if you haven't learned how to lighten up, don't be here! 
Rick: Whatever.  
Scene Action: (Cut to the Smith livingroom with all the Meeseeks) 
Meeseek: It's become clear-look at me- that if we concentrate all our efforts on Jerry's follow-through, we will solve this problem. I'm Mr. Meeseeks. 
Meeseeks *: I'm Mr. Meeseeks. Look at me. The only thing that's clear is that choking up is the one true solution. 
Meeseeks 3: Look at me. I'm Mr. Meeseeks. I've been trying to help Jerry for two days, an eternity in Meeseeks time, and nothing's worked. I fear the worst.  
Meeseeks: Your failures are your own, old man. I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me. I say follow-through! Who's with me?! Follow-through! 
Scene Action: (A Meeseek spawns in another Meeseek) 
New Meeseek: I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me!  
Meeseek: Kill him!  
New Meeseek: Hisssss! (He attacks another meeseek) 
Scene Action: (Cut to Morty in the bathroom) 
Mr. Jelly Bean: How are you today? I'm Mr. Jelly Bean! 
Morty: Hi, Mr. Jelly Bean. I'm Morty. My grandpa and I are on an adventure. 
Mr. Jelly Bean: Nice. Is it a fun adventure? 
Morty: I hope so. But I'm starting to get nervous that maybe it's gone a little too far off the rails. 
Mr. Jelly Bean: Well, isn't that what adventures do? 
Morty: Hey, you know what? You're right. Everything's going fine. I just got to relax and go with the flow. 
Scene Action: Mr. Jelly Bean Yeah. (He rubs Morty's sholders) 
Morty: Okay. Uh. B-bye. 
Scene Action: Mr. Jelly Bean Uhh, no, stay. Go with the flow! 
Morty: Stop. You're making me really uncomfortable.  
Scene Action: (Mr. Jelly Bean clearly wants to rape Morty) 
Mr. Jelly Bean : Stop fighting me! Just let this happen! 
Morty: Get off of me!  
Scene Action: ♪ Sweet home Alabama ♪ 
Scene Action: (The fighting makes it to a stall) 
Morty: Whoo! No! Stop! Please! 
Mr. Jelly Bean: Stop being such a tease, you sweet little-  
Morty: No! No!  
Scene Action: (Morty gets the upper hand and, in a frenzied attack, slams the toilet seat on Mr. Jelly Bean's head until he is knocked out) 
Scene Action: (Back at the Smith house even more Meeseeks have spawned and a full out battle has started. However, even the badly hurt Meeseeks cannot die because the have not completed their task) 
Meeseek: Everybody sto-o-o-p! Look at me! My brothers, nothing will be accomplished by shedding Meeseeks blood. None of us can die until our job is done. 
Meeseek *: The job can't be done! We'll never get two strokes off his game! 
Meeseek: No, we won't. But we will get all strokes off his game. 
All other Meeseeks: Where's he going with this? What's he mean?  
Meeseek: When we kill him! 
Scene Action: (Loud hooting and joy from the meeseeks crowd) 
Scene Action: (Cut to Jerry and Beth at dinner) 
Beth: Jerry, maybe it's time I take that trip I always talk about. 
Jerry: Where would you go? 
Beth: I don't know, man. Italy. Greece. Argentina.  
Jerry: Countries known for their sexually aggressive men. Did I tell you how much I love your new haircut?  
Scene Action: (A loud noise is heard and the glass window breaks with a hoard of Meeseeks angrily storming in) 
Jerry: What the heck? 
Meeseek: There he is!  
Beth: Run, Jerry! 
Scene Action: (Beth and Jerry lock themselves in a freezer with a small window in the door) 
Meeseek: Come on out, Jerry!  
Jerry: Guys, I'll choke up. I'll follow through. I'll do whatever you tell me to do, okay? 
Meeseek: Oh, we're well past that, Jerry. 
Scene Action: (Cut to Rick at a card table with some other characters) 
Card Player: Come on, Rick, quit stalling. What do ya got? 
Rick: Read 'em and weep, fellas! (Morty comes back) Oh, hey, Morty. Listen, I'm really sorry about all that stuff I said earlier about your adventure. I'm havin' a good time, Morty. It's not so bad.  
Morty : Let's just go home, okay? I'm calling it. The adventure's over. 
Rick: We can't leave now, Morty. I'm on fire! 
Morty: Look, I want to leave now. You win the bet, okay? Just give me the portal gun and let's go, please. Please, I just want to go home.  
Scene Action: (Rick sees the badly beaten Mr. Jelly Bean walk out of the bathroom and pieces together what happened) 
Rick: Okay. Listen, Morty. I just won a bunch of shmeckels. Why don't we use 25 of them to pay slippery stair here for a ride back to the village, and then we'll give the rest of the shmeckels to the villagers, huh? 
Morty: Really? 
Rick: Sure, Morty. Yeah. You know, a good adventure needs a good ending.  
Scene Action: (Outside on the steps) 
Slippery: Buckle up! (He starts to take them down) 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the freezer) 
Meeseek : Meeseeks are not born into this world fumbling for meaning, Jerry! We are created to serve a singular purpose for which we will go to any lengths to fulfill! Existence is pain to a Meeseeks, Jerry. And we will do anything to alleviate that pain. Just ask... (Meeseek grabs a woman) Aah! ...what's your name, ma'am? 
Woman: Samantha. Please, mister! Give him what he wants!  
Jerry: Innocent people are going to die because of me. Why am I so mediocre?  
Scene Action: (Beth takes a stand, tears a pipe off of a rack, and grabs Jerry off the ground) 
Beth: Jerry, turn around. Straighten your back. Bend your knees. Bend them. Square your shoulders. Take a deep breath. I love you.  
Meeseek : I'm counting to three, Jerry.  
Scene Action: (Jerry, using the pipe, hits a garlic clove into a pot) 
Scene Action: Samantha; What the f*** is going on? 
All Meeseeks: He's got it! That's a lower handicap stro-o-ke! 
Scene Action: (All the Meeseeks stop existing except 1) 
Meeseeks: Excuse me. I'm a bit of a stickler Meeseeks. What about your short game?  
Samantha: Oh, my God, oh, my God! What about your short game?!  
Scene Action: (Jerry puts some more garlic into a cup) 
Meeseek: Ooh, nice! (Stops existing) 
Jerry: I think we'll take our food to go.  
Owner: No, you won't. The police are coming. You have so many questions to answer.  
Jerry: Fair enough. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty return to the village in triumph) 
The First Villager: Thank you, kind sir. Our village is saved! You are both true heroes!  
Rick: Good job, Morty. Looks like you won the bet.  
Morty: Thanks, Rick, but I don't know if I should. You know, you were right about the universe. It's a crazy and chaotic place.  
Rick: Well, you know, maybe that's why it could use a little cleaning up every now and then, you know. This one's wrapped up neat and clean because we did it Morty style. 
The First Villager: Oh! Heroes, we would like to introduce you to our beloved king so that he may thank you personally.  
Scene Action: (The badly beaten Mr. Jelly Bean is carried to towards them on a thrown) 
Morty: Uh, no, I-it's cool. Rick. Portal. Hurry. 
Scene Action: (They portal away, but Rick makes another portal back and sticks an energy pistol through it and shoots Mr. Jelly Bean, splattering him all over the screaming villagers) 
Scene Action: (Back at the Smith house) 
Jerry: So... You still thinking about taking that trip?  
Beth: Jerry, look. We don't have a perfect marriage, but I'm not going anywhere. When we were in that freezer, I realized the Meeseeks are like the guys I went to high school with willing to say anything to "complete their task." 
Jerry: Was I one of those guys? 
Beth: The difference is you didn't disappear afterwards.  
Jerry: Well... I got you pregnant.  
Beth: Yeah...  
Rick: What the hell happened to this place? 
Beth: Uh, your Meeseeks box happened. They went crazy when they couldn't take two strokes off Jerry's golf game. He felt terrible. 
Rick: Hey, it's not my fault that Jerry's an idiot. 
Beth: Dad!  
Jerry: Is there anything you can do to clean this place up?  
Rick: Well, you know, I do have a Fleeseeks box. 
Jerry: No. No more boxes. 
Rick: What? It just has a mop and some floor wax in it. Wubba lubba dub dubs! (Everyone laughs) Yeah! That's my new thing! I'm kind of like what's his name Arsenio. Isn't that it's what Arsenio used to say on his show. Wobble gobba lop bops! Right? See you next week, everybody. 
Scene Action: (After the end credits at the village) 
Villager 1: I don't get it.  
Villager 2: Sir, I think you're going to want to see this. We found it inside a lockbox inside king Jelly Bean's closet. (A box of pictures of many young boys Mr. Jelly Bean molested) We have to tell the people.  
Villager 1: Wait. Destroy it. (They set the box on fire) Our people will get more from the idea he represented... than from the jelly bean he actually was. 
Scene Action: (They stare at a statue of Mr. Jelly Bean standing next to a young boy with his hand on his sholder) 
Principal Vagina: Principal Vagina here -- don't let the name fool you, I'm very much in charge -- reminding you that tonight is our annual flu season dance, I don't know how many times I have to say this, but if you have the flu, stay home,
Jessica: Hey,
Principal Vagina: The flu season dance is about awareness, not celebration, You don't bring dead babies to passover,
Morty: Okay, Here we go, H-hey, Jessica,
Jessica: Uh... What's up, Morty?
Brad: What are you doing?
Morty: Um...
Brad: Wait, wait, Were you about to talk... to her?
Morty: Well... I mean, I was thinking about it,
Brad: Dude, stay in your league, Look at how hot she is, You don't see me going to a bigger school in a wealthier district and hitting on their prettiest girl,
Jessica: Gee, thanks, brad, I throw balls far, You want good words? Date a languager,
Jerry: Try not to worry about it, Morty, You're a good kid, and there's not a premium on that right now, but you'll be getting girls sometime after brad's out of shape,
Morty: You're missing the point, dad, I don't want girls, I want Jessica,
Jerry: Ah, well, I remember feeling that way about a young lady named "your mom," and that's not an urban diss, Your mom was my Jessica, I remember the first time I saw her, I thought --
Rick: "I should get her pregnant, and then she'll have to marry me ,"
Jerry: I beg your pardon, Rick -- inappropriate,
Rick: Sorry, please proceed with your story about banging my daughter in high school, I'm not sure you want to take romantic advice from this guy, Morty, His marriage is hanging from a thread,
Jerry: My marriage is fine, thank you,
Rick: Jerry, it's your house -- whatever you say it is is how it is -- but I think a blind man could see that Beth is looking for the door, I barely have a reason to care, and even I noticed,
Morty: Come on, Rick! Don't talk about my parents like that,
Rick: Listen, Morty, I hate to break it to you, but what people call "love" is just a chemical reaction that compels animals to breed, It hits hard, Morty, then it slowly fades, leaving you stranded in a failing marriage, I did it, Your parents are gonna do it, Break the cycle, Morty, Rise above, Focus on science, [ Slurps ]
Morty: All right, well, I'm gonna go get dressed for the dance,
Jerry: Yeah, I'm just going to... check on your mom,
Rick: Morty, hand me that screwdriver, huh? I'm almost finished making my ionic defibulizer, Morty, It's gonna be great,
Morty: Hey, listen, Rick, Y-y-you know how you said that, you know, love is a chemical and all that stuff from earlier? Well, I was thinking, you know, w-w-- could you make some sort of chemical thing happen inside of Jessica's mind, you know, so where she falls in love with me and all that sort of thing? You know, like, maybe make some sort of love potion or something?
Rick: Morty, that's such a poor use of my time, It's beneath me, Hand me the screwdriver,
Morty: You know what? No, Rick! I'm not gonna hand you the screwdriver, I-I'm not gonna hand you anything ever again, Rick! I'm always helping you with this and that and the other thing, W-w-w-w-w-what about me, Rick? W-w-w-w-why can't you just help me out once -- once -- for once?
Rick: [ Groans ] You're growing up fast, Morty, You're growing into a real big thorn straight up into my ass, Listen, this is called oxytocin, I extracted it from a vole, Do you know what a vole is, Morty? You know what a vole is? It's a -- it's a rodent that mates for life, Morty, This is the chemical released in a mammal's brain, you know, that makes it fall in love, All right, Morty, I just got to combine it with some of your DNA,
Morty: Oh, well, okay,
Rick: A hair, Morty, I need one of your hairs, This isn't "Game of Thrones,"
Morty: Ow!
Rick: All right, Morty, Whoever you smear this stuff on will fall in love with you, and only you, forever, Are you happy now, Morty?
Morty: Heck, yeah! Thank you, grandpa Rick, Hey, there's no... dangers or anything, or side effects, right?
Rick: W-w-w-what am I, a hack? Go nuts, Morty, It's foolproof, Eh, unless she has the flu,
Jerry: Beth, do y-you still love me?
Beth: Ugh, what kind of question is that?
Jerry: The "yes or no" kind?
Beth: Jerry, do you want homeless people to have homes?
Jerry: Yes,
Beth: Are you gonna build them?
Jerry: No,
Beth: Then what good was the "yes"?
Jerry: Wait, I-is loving me the house or the homeless people?
Beth: Loving you is work, Jerry -- hard work, like building a homeless shelter -- nobody wants to say no to doing it, but some people put the work in, So, what do you say? Do you see me working here? Does this conversation seem tedious to me?
Jerry: Sort of,
Beth: Then I obviously sort of love you, don't I? So stop asking, and maybe I'll love you more, Crap, they need me at the horse hospital,
Jerry: Puh! This late?
Beth: The racetrack had a starlight derby, There was a seven-horse collision, and Davin's there alone,
Jerry: [ Thinking ] Davin, Davin, Davin! Davin, Davin! Davin! Davin! Davin!
Scene Action: [ Rapping ] ♪ Flu, yo, you got to be aware ♪ ♪ Aware of all the flu up in the air ♪ ♪ I'm-a get me a shot and make the flu go away ♪ ♪ Flu-hating rapper Just rapping away ♪ ♪ Yo, yo, flu-hating rapper ♪ ♪ It's a flu-hating rapper ♪
Morty: Hey, there, Jessica, Whoa! Oh, whoopsie!
Jessica: Oh, my god, Morty, You look really nice tonight,
Morty: Wow, thanks,
Jessica: I love you, Morty! I love you so much it burns!
Morty: Oh, man! I-I love you too, Jessica!
Brad: Is this punk bothering you, Jessica?
Jessica: Leave him alone, jerk! I'm in love with him! He is more man than you will ever be! [ Sneezes ]
Scene Action: [ Rapping ] ♪ This is about flu awareness ♪ ♪ Got to be aware of the flu ♪ ♪ In the air-ness ♪ ♪ Yo, I'm a flu-hating rapper ♪
Brad: Oh, man, Morty, [ Sighs ] I'm really sorry,
Morty: Oh, well, n-no problem, brad,
Brad: There's something special about you, Morty -- so special, Mmm, yeah,
Morty: Whoa, take it easy!
Jessica: Get your hands off of him!
Brad: Back off! I'm trying to be with my man!
Principal Vagina: That's enough, Bradley! We don't want you injuring your ball-throwing arm,
Brad: Oh, come on, principal Vagina, I just...
Jessica: Never leave me, Morty, Never!
Morty: Uh, sure, I mean, o-of course not, W-what do you think that was all about?
Jessica: Who cares? Just hold me,
Brad: Let me go! I love you, Morty! [ Sneezes ] Let go of me! Morty!
Jerry: She's gonna be alone with that guy all night,
Summer: Yeah, dad, digging around the insides of horses, It's not a very romantic setting,
Rick: Well, Summer, there's always the possibility that she made the whole work thing up, Maybe Davin's digging around in her insides,
Summer: Grandpa, so gross! You're talking about my mom,
Rick: Well, she's my daughter, Summer, I outrank you, Or family means nothing, in which case don't play that card,
Jerry: She's not responding to my texts!
Summer: Careful, dad, Jealousy turns women off,
Jerry: Well, isn't that convenient?
Rick: Not for the men they cheat on, no,
Jerry: Okay, I'm... going to go out... for some ice cream, And maybe stop by the hospital... to support my wife... with my confidence,
Summer: God, grandpa, you're such a dick,
Rick: I'm sorry, Summer, Your opinion means very little to me, How come you're not at this stupid dance everyone loves so much?
Summer: Screw that, I don't want to get sick, It's flu season,
Rick: It is?
Summer: Yeah,
Rick: Uh-oh,
Scene Action: [ Hip-hop music plays ]
Morty: Please just let this work out,
Jessica: [ Moans ] Do it, Morty, Do it, Rip my clothes off and mate with me for life! [ Growls ]
Morty: Um... can we maybe go somewhere more private?
Cool Girl: Jessica, get a hold of yourself! [ Grunts ] You don't deserve to carry Morty's genes,
Rapper: [ Rapping ] ♪ I love Morty ♪ ♪ And I hope Morty loves me ♪ ♪ I'd like to wrap my arms around him ♪ ♪ And feel him inside me ♪
Morty: Oh, crap,
Scene Action: [ Indistinct shouting ]
Jessica: Morty!
Rick: Morty, come on! We got to get you out of here, You're not gonna believe this because it usually never happens, but I made a mistake, [ Both panting ] Come on, Morty, We got to get out of here, Come on,
Principal Vagina: Morty!
Morty: [ Wails ]
Principal Vagina: Are you okay?
Morty: I'm fine!
Principal Vagina: Oh, good, If anything ever happened to you, I would kill myself, I love you bad, mo-mo!
Scene Action: [ All panting ] [ Indistinct shouting ]
Goldenfold: Morty, the principal and I have discussed it, a-a-and we're both insecure enough to agree to a three-way!
Rick: I didn't realize when I gave you that serum that Jessica had the flu -- you know, t-t-t-t-t-t-t-that might have been valuable information for me, Morty,
Morty: What the hell is going on, Rick?
Rick: What does it look like? T-t-t-the serum is piggybacking on the virus, It's gone airborne, Morty,
Morty: Oh, crap, What are we gonna do, Rick?
Rick: It's gonna be fine, Morty, relax, I whipped up and antidote, It's based on praying-mantis DNA, You know, praying mantises are the exact opposite of voles, Morty, I mean, they -- they mate once, and then they, you know, decapitate the partner, I mean, it's a whole ritual, It's really gruesome and totally opposite, There's no love at all, I-I-I basically mixed this with a more contagious flu virus, It should neutralize the whole thing, Morty, It'll all be over very shortly,
Scene Action: [ Indistinct shouting ]
Rick: Uh, by the way, Morty, I know you didn't ask or anything, but I'm not interested in having sex with you, These serums, they don't work on anybody related to you genetically,
Scene Action: Morty! [ All groaning ]
Rick: Okay, well, sometimes, science is more art than science, Morty, A lot of people don't get that,
Jerry: [ Gasps ]
Scene Action: [ Tires screech ]
Jerry: Come on, Are you kidding me? Hello!
Mantis: Morty! You're not Morty! Bring us Morty!
Scene Action: [ Gun cocks ]
Jerry: Nobody's killing me until after I catch my wife with another man,
TV: I had sex with Billy, But you were already pregnant! Yeah, so what's the worst that could happen? We interrupt "Pregnant Baby" With breaking news,
Summer: [ Groans ] Come on,
TV: This just in -- Morty Smiths whereabouts are still unknown,
Summer: What the hell?
TV: The only thing that is known is... how cute he is, I love him so much, I want to make love to him and then eat his head, I love him more than you do, Harold! You wish, you stupid bitch! Morty's mine! Morty's mine! Meant to be together! [ Speaking Arabic ] Morty! [ Speaking Arabic ] [ Banging on door ]
Mantis: Where is Morty?
Summer: [ Screams ]
Scene Action: [ Conversing in native language ]
Morty: Oh, my god, Rick, The whole world is infected!
Rick: Yeah, it's pretty wild how fast that spread, I've really outdone myself,
Morty: Outdone yourself?! w-w-- a-are -- are you kidding me, Rick? This is not okay! Not only do they all want to have sex with me, but, you know, now they want to eat me afterwards!
Rick: Yeah, I don't know what I was thinking, Mantises are they opposite of voles? I mean, obviously, DNA's a little more complicated than that, You know what, though, Morty? This right here's gonna do the trick, baby, It's koala mixed with rattlesnake, chimpanzee, cactus, shark, golden retriever, and just a smidge of dinosaur, Should add up to normal humanity,
Morty: I don't -- that doesn't make any sense, Rick, How does that add up to normal humanity?
Morty: What, Morty, you want me to show you my math? I'm sorry -- a-are you the scientist or are you the kid that wanted to get laid?
Davin: [ Exhales deeply ] Well, I'm glad we saved all those horses, but I'm almost sorry we're finished,
Beth: Yes, it's satisfying work,
Davin: Unh-unh-unh, it's, uh -- it's more than the work, I love being in that sterilized room, sealed off from the world, It's the only time I can really think... and feel,
Scene Action: [ Slow music plays ]
Beth: Hmm, uh, what are you doing?
Davin: I'm playing African dream pop, What do you do after a long night?
Scene Action: [ Click ]
Beth: Oh, ha, um, hey, I b-- I'd better get going, Um, Jerry's been texting some pretty high-maintenance stuff,
Davin: Beth...
Beth: What is it, Davin?
Davin: Just once, I'd like to know -- [ Sneezes ] W-w-what it was like to give your son a bath,
Beth: What?!
Davin: What does Morty's skin smell like? How soft... [ Grunts ] How soft are his privates?
Beth: Let go of me, Davin!
Davin: [ Roars ] Take me to Morty,
Jerry: [ Grunts ]
Davin: You're not Morty,
Jerry: No, I'm Mr, Crowbar, and this is my friend, who is also a crowbar,
Davin: That's... stupid,
Jerry: [ Grunting ] Yeah? Well, look where being smart got you,
Beth: Jerry! Thank god!
Jerry: God? God's turning people into insect monsters, Beth, I'm the one beating them to death, Thank me,
Beth: Thank you, Jerry, Thank you,
Rick: Take a good look down there, Morty, and soak it in, because, you know, once I pull this lever, it's all back to normal,
Morty: Just do it already,
Rick: Well, technically, Morty, there's no rush, I mean, you know, o-once it's fixed, it's done, It's fixed, You know, we could -- we could just enjoy it for a little bit, I mean, l-l-l-look at how crazy it is, I mean, Morty, w-w-when's the next time you're gonna see something like this? I mean, soak it in, you know? It's -- it's pretty neat, It's pretty interesting,
Morty: That's it, Rick! I'm pulling the lever, [ Grunts ]
Rick: W-what do we have here, Morty? Looks like I was right and you were wrong, huh? I-I-I-I-I-I-I bet you feel pretty stupid right about now, huh? I-I-I bet you feel like the world's smallest man that you were doubting me about this whole thing, Morty,
Morty: Oh, Rick, something's not right, Yeah, you, You're not right -- ever,
Morty: No, no! Look, you idiot!
Scene Action: [ All screaming ] [ All speaking native language ] [ All groaning ] [ All ululating ]
Rick: Bet you're loving this, Morty, This must be the best day of your life, You get to be the mayor of I told you town, [ Slurps ] You're welcome, [ Slurps ]
Jerry: Hold on,
Scene Action: [ Engine revs, tires squeal ] [ Gun cocks ]
Jerry: I wish that shotgun was my penis,
Beth: If it were, you could call me Ernest Hemingway,
Jerry: I don't get it, and I don't need to,
Scene Action: [ Both moaning ]
Summer: Mom! Dad!
Both: Summer!
Beth: [ Sighs ]
Jerry: Where's Morty?
Summer: I don't know, Do you think grandpa Rick had something to do with this?
Jerry: It's not fair to assume that, Summer,
Beth: Oh, not fair? Give me a break, He is a selfish, irresponsible ass, and he left my mother, A real man stands by his woman,
Scene Action: [ Both moaning ]
Summer: Tchoo, Tchoo-tchoo-tchoo, Tchoo-tchoo,
Rick: Boy, Morty, I really Cronenberged the world up, didn't I? We got a whole planet of Cronenbergs walking around down there, Morty, A-at least they're not in love with you anymore, though, That's a huge step in the right direction,
Morty: Oh, my god! It's a living nightmare! How could you be so irresponsible, Rick?
Rick: Me irresponsible?! You -- all I wanted you to do was hand me a screwdriver, Morty! You're the one who wanted to be -- wanted me to buckle down and make you up a... roofie-juice serum so you could roofie that poor girl at your school, I mean, g-- w-w-w-w-w-- w-- are you kidding me, Morty? You're gonna try to take the high road on this one? Y-y-y-y-you're a little creep, Morty, Y-you're a -- you're -- you're -- you're just a little creepy... creep person,
Morty: All right, fine, I should have just listened to you when you refused to make the serum, I'm willing to accept my part of the blame for this, Rick, But I'll tell you something -- you know what? You got to accept your part of the blame! I'm not the one who fouled up the serum! I'm not the one who -- who -- who -- who haphazardly, you know, mixed a bunch of nonsense together and created a bunch of Cronenbergs! You got to fix this, Rick!
Rick: All right, all right, Morty, You know, w-w-w-we are in a pretty deep hole, here, but I do have one emergency solution that I can use that'll kind of put everything back to normal, relatively speaking, Here, Morty, put this on while I do a little bit of scouting,
Scene Action: [ Birds chirping ]
Morty: Wow, Rick, I got to say -- you really pulled a rabbit out of your hat this time, I mean, I-I really thought that the whole place was gonna be messed up for good, but here, you did it -- y-y-you -- you -- you figured out that crazy solution, like you always do, Whoo! That's some great luck,
Rick: Come on, Morty, Luck had nothing to do with it, I'm great, That's the real reason, Now, Morty, what do you say, buddy? Will you hand me a screwdriver so I can finish my ionic dis-- defibulizer?
Morty: Sure thing, Rick, Here's a screwdriver,
Rick: All right, Morty, Thank you very much, We got one screw turn... and two screw turns... and... All right, Morty, here we are,
Morty: Oh, my god, Rick! Is that us?! W-w-w-we're dead! What is going on, Rick? I'm freaking out!
Rick: Calm down, Morty! Look at me! Calm down, Morty!
Morty: No, I can't deal with this!
Rick: Calm yourself, Morty,
Morty: I can't deal with this, Rick!
Rick: Morty, Calm down, Morty,
Rick: You got to calm down, Morty,
Morty: W-w-w-w-we're ripped apart!
Rick: Shut up and listen to me! It's fine, Everything is fine, There's an infinite number of realities, Morty, and in a few dozen of those, I got lucky and turned everything back to normal, I just had to find one of those realities in which we also happen to both die around this time, Now we can just slip into the place of our dead selves in this reality and everything will be fine, We're not skipping a beat, Morty, -Now, help me with these bodies,
Morty: This is insane,
Rick: Look, Morty, I'll grab myself, you grab yourself, okay? I mean, t-t-t-that seems fair to me -- I mean, that seems like a fair way to divvy it up,
Morty: Rick, what about the reality we left behind?
Rick: What about the reality where Hitler cured cancer, Morty? The answer is don't think about it, It's not like we can do this every week, anyways, We get three or four more of these, tops, Now, pick up your dead self and come on, Haste makes waste, I-I-I don't suppose you've considered this detail, but obviously, if I hadn't screwed up as much as I did, we'd be these guys right now, so, again, you're welcome,
Scene Action: ♪ Look on down ♪ ♪ From the bridge ♪ ♪ There's still fountains ♪ ♪ Down there ♪ ♪ Look on down ♪ ♪ From the bridge ♪ ♪ It's still raining ♪ ♪ Up here ♪ ♪ Everybody seems so far away ♪ ♪ From me ♪ ♪ Everybody just wants ♪ ♪ To be free ♪ ♪ Look away from the sky ♪ ♪ It's no different ♪ ♪ When you're leaving home ♪ ♪ I can't be the same thing ♪ ♪ To you now ♪ ♪ I'm just gone ♪ ♪ Just gone ♪ ♪ How could I say goodbye? ♪ How could I say goodbye?
Summer: You know, the thing about a shark... he's got lifeless eyes... black eyes, like a doll's eyes, When he comes at ya, he doesn't seem to be living until he bites ya, and then the -- the blood, and the red, and the water...
Jerry: [ Sighs ] You ever wonder what happened to Rick and Morty?
Beth: Sometimes, But, I'm ashamed to admit, now that they're gone, I'm finally happy,
Cronenberg Rick: Here we are, Cronenberg Morty -- a reality where everyone in the world got genetically Cronenberged, We'll fit right in, Cronenberg Morty, It'll be like we never even left Cronenberg world,
Cronenberg Morty: Yeah, Cronenberg Rick, but, you know, I'm gonna miss Cronenberg world, because everyone was cronenberged all along like us from the beginning, you know? I mean, I-I wish we hadn't genetically ruined Cronenberg world beyond repair like we did, you know, and turned everyone into regular, normal people just walking around,
Cronenberg Rick: Don't you worry about that sort of thing, Cronenberg Morty, Let's go make ourselves at home, huh? 
Rick: Look, I'm not paying 70 smidgens for a broken defraculator,
Alien: That is multiphase quantum resonator,
Rick: Well, does it defraculate?
Alien: - No,
Rick: Then -- then -- then it's a broken defraculator,
Alien: Like you would even know dick about fraculation! Your planet just got cellphones, and the coverage still sucks!
Rick: Yeah, yeah, and your species eat sulfur, So, let's say 60 smidgens, I tell you what -- I'll do you a favor, I'll throw in a fart,
Morty: Hey, uh, Rick, um, you think maybe I could get something from this place, like a souvenir, like, just to have ---like, something cool, you know?
Rick: Not here, Morty, We'll stop somewhere else, because, you know, there's always another pawn shop,
Morty: Oh, okay I just, um -- you know, I thought that robot over there looked pretty cool, you know?
Rick: Oh, it looks cool, huh? That's why you want it?
Morty: Yeah! You know, I mean, it's different from the stuff on earth, and, you know, you take me to all these crazy places across the galaxy, and, you know,I don't really have anything to to remember all those trips by it'd be kind of cool, like a souvenir, You know, like, what if you passed away or died or something? I wouldn't even have anything to remember all the cool stuff we did, you know?
Rick: Okay, 60 for the resonator, and my grandson wants the sex robot,
Summer: So, we're just going to pretend this isn't happening? I'm not saying that's a bad idea -- just asking,
Jerry: Rick, why would you let Morty bring that thing into our house?!
Rick: I don't know, What do you want from me? He thi-- he thou-- he thou-- he th-- he thought it looked cool, You know what I mean?
Morty: Whew! [ Gulping ] Ahh, All right, Back to -- back to -- b-back upstairs, [ Footsteps depart, door closes in distance ] [ Rhythmic creaking ]
Jerry: Well, I'm intervening,
Beth: Intervening with puberty? You'll turn him into Ralph Fiennes in "Red Dragon," He's at that age, Let's just be proud of him,
Summer: Jesus, Did I really set the bar that low?
Morty: Um, Rick, could you come with me, please -- q-quickly?
Beth: Okay, now if we hear squeaking, we intervene, [ Warbling ]
Rick: Where's the sex robot, Morty?
Morty: That is Gwendolyn -- I-I mean, the robot! She started beeping and then transformed and tried to fly away!
Rick: Strange -- that's usually the man's job, You know what I'm talking about, Morty? Wubba-lubba-dub-dub! [ Laughs ] Morty that's my catchphrase, remember? Remember -- remember how I -- how I cemented that catchphrase? All right, All right, seriously, though, let me grab this thing, [ Grunts ] Come on, you rascal,
Beth: Okay, unacceptable! Oh,
Jerry: What is going on?
Rick: All right, Uh-oh,
Beth: "Uh-oh"? What is that?!
Rick: Hmm, I think Morty's robot was designed for more than long weekends, Genetic compiler, incubation chamber, Yep, This here's some kind of baby maker, and that there's half Morty, half [ Burps ] Who -- who knows wh-what? It's my bad, guys, I'll -- I'll take care of it,
Beth: Grandpa Rick, no, no!
Jerry: Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Beth: Dad, What do you think you're doing?!
Rick: Hey, listen -- you guys quarantined the house when Summer brought olives back from Mexico, I mean, this thing could grow to the size of Delaware, I mean, it might eat brains and exhale space aids, We got to be careful,
Morty: I lost the chance to be careful, Rick, I'm a father now! You know, it's time for me to be responsible, Isn't that right...
Rick: Don't name it!
Morty: Morty Jr ?
Rick: Oh, crap, He named it,
Beth: Well, dad, it's a living thing, and it's half human,
Jerry: And it was born on american soil, which entitles it to --
Beth: Jerry, majoring in civics was your mistake, Don't punish for it,
Rick: Fine, I'm gonna take this thing to my workshop and do a little bit of investigating, Do not let that thing out of your sight, It looks harmless now, but it could grow into something dangerous,
Jerry: Like the insane clown posse,
Rick: Yeah, Good one, Jerry, 2003 just called, It wants its easy target back,
Morty: Ohh, He's like a little me! Y-you don't think he'll turn into a monster,,,do you?
Beth: They always do,
Jerry: Hey, uh, 1995 called! They want their "Certain year called wanting its 'blank' back" Formula back!
Beth: Why, Jerry? Why expend the effort?
Jerry: Life is effort, and I'll stop when I die!
Rick: Out
Summer: Whatcha doin'?
Rick: Well, I can't solve the problem my way, thanks to your family's primitive biological hang-ups, Gross, I might have just touched one of Morty's loads, But maybe I can find suitable parents for Morty Jr, on this robot's home world, which is... Gazorpazorp in the Andromeda system Scoot, Summer,
Summer: Don't you need a new companion now that Morty's in the family way?
Rick: I don't do adventures with chicks, Summer,
Summer: Oh, right -- because there's something about having a wiener that would make me better at walking through a hole? Aaaaaaaaaaaaah!
Rick: Oh, crap,
Summer: Grandpa Rick! Ugh! Help! Help! Aah! Aah! [ Roars ]
Summer: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! Grandpa Rick!
Rick: Still think it's a good idea to go through holes without a wiener?
Summer: I want to go home,
Rick: Yeah, no duh, Ugh!
Summer: [ Gasps ] [ All snarling ]
Rick: Great, Now I have to take over a whole planet because of your stupid boobs,
Jerry: You're doing great Morty,
Morty: Really? You think? I mean, I'm not doing much of anything, What do I do if it cries?
Beth: Then you put it down and let it cry itself out,
Jerry: Yeah, right, We tried that technique on Summer, and she's gonna end up stripping, Isn't she? Yes, she is, She's gonna strip for attention because she was denied it,
Beth: Stop filling it with your own insecurity, You're gonna turn it into Morty -- uh, mm -- more -- more -- more -- more of you,
Jerry: Well, we can't all be raised like reptiles by a mentally ill scientist... What the -- aah! Aah! [ Crying ]
Beth: Listen to me, I am not rewarding this behavior,
Morty: Knock it off, both of you! G-give me him! Give me my baby! You're both nuts! I'm gonna raise Morty Jr, myself! ♪ Where's your hands? ♪ ♪ There's your hands ♪ ♪ And that's how we play handy hands ♪
Jerry: Oh, you are going to ruin that kid, Morty,
Beth: At least we can agree on that,
Scene Action: [ All snarling ] [ Growling ]
Rick: Thanks, dum-dum, [ Roars ]
Rick: I said, "Rhanks, dum-dum," Go get more, Summer, put your burka on!
Summer: That burka is a human-rights violation, and I spent a lot on this top,
Rick: Look, I'm trying to repair a p-portal gun with a bunch of sex-doll parts, and I have to do it one-handed to keep these belushis from carting you off, The least you could do is be ashamed of your gender,
Summer: Ugh, What's the deal with this place? Why is it such a sausage planet, and how did such backward idiots invent robots?
Rick: Obviously, at some point, the Gazorpians became so evolved that they replaced females with birthing machines, The resultant lack of distraction and hen-pecking allowed them to focus entirely on war, so they bombed themselves back to the stone age, and now they just fight with each other over fake [ Bleep ] with sticks and rocks all day long,
Summer: You think it's efficient to get rid of women?
Rick: You ever see a line for the men's room? Are you hear-- do you li-- do you hear me, Summer?
Scene Action: [ Rumbling ] Droppin' loads,
All: Droppin' loads! Droppin' loads,
Rick: The plot thickens,
Scene Action: [ All shouting indistinctly ]
Rick: Uh, you might want to cover your eyes, Summer,
Summer: Yeah, like it was my dream to watch,
Scene Action: [ All murmuring ] Yeah, baby!
Rick: Summer, grab -- grab hold,
Scene Action: Yeah, baby!
Rick: Aaaah!
Summer: Grandpa Rick, where are we going?
Rick: Well, obviously, Summer, it appears the lower tier of this society is being manipulated through sex and advanced technology by a hidden ruling class, Sound familiar?
Summer: [ Gasps ] Ticketmaster,
Rick: Oh, there -- there we go, Summer, Hey -- hey, brother, Hey, bro, Nice racket you got going on here, Listen, I'm Rick Sanchez from Earth dimension C-137, Don't mean you any harm, Coming in peace, It's all cool in the, uh -- "Good in the neighborhood" is what I was trying to come -- is what I meant, Oh, I get it -- the old behind-every-great-man Amazon twist,
Gazorpazorpian: Silence!
Rick: [ Choking ] [ Coughs ]
Gazorpazorpian: Your slave is ill-mannered,
Summer: My slave?
Gazorpazorpian: We assume you are from a more primitive world, where men are still permitted to be servants, If he is a rogue male, tell us now and we will kill him,
Summer: He's my slave, He's my slave, He's definitely my slave,
Rick: [ Chokes ] Ugh! Ohh! Oh-ho-ho! Oh, boy, What's the opposite of "Wubba-lubba-dub-dubs"? Am I right, ladies and gentlemen? Are you guys kidding me?
Morty: Oh, Morty Jr,! you're gonna be a special little guy, aren't you? You -- oh, yeah, You're my special little guy, Ohh, Ohh! Ha ha! Mortimer Smith Jr: Da,
Morty: What was that, Morty Jr,? Were you gonna say, "Dada"? Say, "Dada," Mortimer Smith Jr: Death!
Morty: "Dada,"
Mortimer Smith Jr: Damnation!
Morty: Um "Dada"?
Mortimer Smith Jr: Destruction, Domination,
Jerry: [ Clears throat ] Nice,
Overhead: The spider in sector "C" is still alive, Plan your route accordingly and expect delays, We're not telling you what to do, We're just sharing how we feel, And now weather -- is anyone else cold, or is it just me?
Mar-sha: I am Mar-sha, ruler of Gazorpazorp, I am here if you need to talk,
Summer: What is this place? Paradise,
Mar-sha: We built it during the great passive-aggression, when the females separated from the males due to their increasingly destructive behavior, I am here if you need to talk, I am here if you need to talk, From here, we dispense mechanical surrogates to maintain our population, Fertilized surrogates are returned here to our nursery, The females are placed into educational programs where they can discover a service to our paradise that fulfills them most, Males... they get to play outside,
Summer: That was just a baby,
Mar-sha: And within a day, he'll be an adult male Gazorpian -- one of the most aggressively violent creatures in the universe,
Rick: Wait a minute, We're here because a male Gazorpian was born on our planet,
Summer: You speak when you're spoken to, ding-a-ling! It's true, though -- one of your babies was born on earth,
Mar-sha: Are you the ruler of this Earth?
Summer: How did you know? The quality of your top,
Summer: Do you love it? Mar-sha: I love it, - I'm here if you need to talk, - I'm here if you need to talk,
Summer: I'm here if you need to talk,
Mar-sha: If the Gazorpian is male, your earth is in grave danger, We will give you passage back home so it can be terminated, But first, Mojitos,
Rick: We don't have time for Mojitos,
Summer: You are insulting them,
Rick: I don't care, Summer! This place is the worst! I want to go home!
Summer: Well, it really doesn't matter what you want, because this is a sane place where women rule,
Rick: Yeah, You know what I have to say about that?
Scene Action: [ Farting ]
Scene Action: [ All gasp ]
Mar-sha: I cannot believe my ears!
Rick: [ Farting continues ] Whoo, boy! Who let the frogs out, huh?
Summer: Grandpa! Mar-sha: Grandpa? That sounds patriarchal! It means "Father of fathers," Then this one is not your slave, and your Earth is yet another planet dominated by men,
Rick: It's not dominated by us, okay? On Earth, men and women are equals,
Summer: Equals?! We make 70% of your salary for the same job!
Mar-sha: Seize them!
Rick: Whoa! Was this really the time to make that point, Summer?
Mortimer Smith Jr: This is for you, daddy,
Morty: Oh, man! Um, okay, Listen to me, Morty Jr, I've got to tell you something very important, okay? Killing is bad -- bad!
Scene Action: [ Giggles ]
Mortimer Smith Jr: You're silly, daddy,
Morty: No, Morty Jr, I'm being serious, okay? You need to put your energy into something else, I mean, what about dancing? Would you like to learn how to dance?
Mortimer Smith Jr: I'd like to dance -- on the graves of my enemies,
Morty: Ohh! No, Morty Jr,!
Mortimer Smith Jr: Daddy, can I go outside?
Morty: No! Absolutely not!
Mortimer Smith Jr: But that's where all the people and the animals are,
Morty: Yeah, but you can't go out there because the -- the air is poisonous for you! You will die -- you'll die instantly if you ever leave this house! You hear me?
Mortimer Smith Jr: For real?
Morty: For real times a million, buddy, So, let's just stay inside, and, you know, let's try dancing, right? Look at me, Yay! Look, We're gonna dance, Come on, Join -- dance with me here, We love to dance,
Mortimer Smith Jr: Why do we love to dance?
Morty: Because I said so!
Scene Action: [ Crying ]
Beth: Nice,
Jerry: Nice, [ Indistinct conversations ]
Veronica: So, what are you in for?
Rick: Because I got -- I got a big, you know, penis between my legs, What -- what -- what are you in for?
Veronica: The worst crime a female can commit, Mar-sha: Veronica Ann Bennett, I find you guilty of having bad bangs,
Gazorpazorpian: You ever notice the ones with bad bangs always have three names?
Mar-sha: You are hereby sentenced to the silent treatment!
Scene Action: [ All gasp ]
Rick: Pfft! This is gonna be cake, No, Jackie!
Mar-sha: Rick and Summer of Earth, for the crimes of treason against womankind and for creating the sound of which we do not speak because it does not exist, you are hereby sentenced to --
Rick: What, what, what -- a night on the couch?
Mar-sha: Death,
Rick: Ooh, gerp,
Summer: I hate you so much right now,
Mar-sha: This will be the first instance of capital punishment in our society in 500 years due to our awesomeness, so we are forced to improvise, We placed a large boulder on that ledge,
Rick: Holy shit! Y-y-you're gonna crush us with a boulder?!
Mar-sha: No! Stop interrupting! The boulder falls onto a lever that will launch knives,
Rick: What? Just give me a gun, I'll kill myself,
Mar-sha: Stop interrupting! The knives will -- fine! You were right the first time, okay? The boulder crushes you, I just didn't want to admit you were right, Happy? No, just ignore them, Ignore them, Such an asshole,
Rick: Look, I'm sorry, Summer, I feel bad that I let you drag us into this, I wish I could have been a better grandpa to you, and, you know, for what it's worth, that is a really nice, cute top that you're wearing there,
Summer: Top, My top! My top -- the same top you complimented earlier! Look -- look at the tag, Read it, It says, "Marc Jacobs,"
Mar-sha: Marc? Jacob? These are names of the penis,
Summer: Yes, An Earth man made this top, Maybe on your planet, separation of the genders is the right thing to do, but on Earth, a certain percentage of our males are born gay, which is why my clothes are better than all of yours,
Mar-sha: A man made something fashionable? It's true, and sometimes the truth hurts, but it must be accepted, like if I told you that you're using the wrong color foundation for your skin and it ends at your neck, making you look like a party clown,
Summer: Okay, ouch, Noted, But the fact remains if you impose Gazorpazorp's laws on earth, you're no better than the men whose farts shall remain unspoken, And if you think my top is cute, you cannot execute,
Scene Action: [ All gasp ]
Mar-sha: Very well, Give the Earth people a spacecraft so they may head back to their weird planet, where women are kind of equal but not really,
Rick: Good job, Summer, and thanks, girls, You know, you girls are really something, I'll tell you that, You know when we first got there, I was like -- Give them a ship now,
Morty: Morty Jr,! Smoking?! That is not okay!
Mortimer Smith Jr: What are you gonna do -- ground me? I can't go outside anyway!
Morty: So what?! You could do things inside! You could play guitar, You could masturbate,
Mortimer Smith Jr: I don't want to masturbate, I want to conquer the planet!
Morty: Oh, here we go again! You know, who do you think is gonna love you if you conquer the planet, Morty Jr,?!
Mortimer Smith Jr: Love -- that's all you care about! What about weapons?! What about domination of the enemy?!
Morty: All right, that's it -- no more history channel! This TV is for cartoons and video games only!
Mortimer Smith Jr: I hate video games!
Morty: You take that back! Give it to me! Ugh! I-I-I didn't mean -- I didn't mean that, I didn't mean to do that, I'm sorry,
Mortimer Smith Jr: I can't take this anymore! I'd rather breathe poison than live another minute with you!
Morty: No! No, no, no! Stop!
Scene Action: [ Breathing deeply ]
Mortimer Smith Jr: My life has been a lie! God is dead! The government's lame! Thanksgiving is about killing indians! Jesus wasn't born on Christmas! They moved the date! It was a pagan holiday!
Morty: Oh, dad!
Jerry: Yes, Morty?
Morty: My son is gonna take over the planet, and I am too young to drive! Can you help me get him back?!
Jerry: [ Clears throat ] I suppose, Morty, I suppose, But first, a deep sip from a very tall glass of "I told you so ,"
Scene Action: [ Gulping ]
Morty: Oh, my god! Please, dad! Come on!
Scene Action: [ Dog barking in distance ] ♪ Runnin' wild, runnin' hot, burnin' inside ♪ ♪ With the youth in the blood and the age ♪ ♪ And the heat and the fire in your pants, open wide ♪ ♪ You're gonna run from the damn cold ♪ ♪ But you can't run from your youth ♪ [ Roaring ] [ Tires screech ] [ People screaming ] [ Tires screech ] [ Screaming continues ]
Morty: Dad, there he is!
Scene Action: [ Roars ]
Jerry: Oh, god, Hey, stop that!
Morty: Oh, my god! Oh, my god! Dad!
Scene Action: [ Roars ]
Morty: Morty Jr,, no! It's me! It's dad, It's okay! Put the car down, Morty Jr, No! No! ♪ Wh-where's your hands? ♪ ♪ Where's your hands? ♪
Jerry: My car!
Mortimer Smith Jr: ♪ And that's how we play handy hands ♪
Rick: Out of the -- out of the way, Morty!
Morty: No!
Rick: Morty, that's one of the most violently aggressive creatures in the universe!
Morty: He's my son! And if you hurt him, you'll have to kill me, Rick!
Scene Action: [ Growls ]
Mortimer Smith Jr: Dad, I'm so confused!
Morty: I know, Morty Jr, I'm sorry, I ended up lying to you and yelling at you just like my parents did to me, You know, parents are just kids having kids, One minute, you like how a shiny robot looks, The next minute, you're in a fist fight with your alien son,
Mortimer Smith Jr: I'm an alien?
Morty: We all have bad impulses, bad thoughts, We just have to learn to channel them into something constructive,
Mortimer Smith Jr: But I want to murder everyone I see,
Morty: Well, you know, I mean, maybe there's a job out there for people that feel that way,
Brad Anderson: Actually, there is, Hi, I'm Brad Anderson, creator of the nationally syndicated comic strip "Marmaduke," You should consider being a creative, I'm haunted by uncontrollable thoughts of mutilations and sexual assaults on a near daily basis, But, you know, I channel it all into my work,
Mortimer Smith Jr: Oh, Wow,
Morty: Huh, I never got that impression from reading "Marmaduke,"
Brad Anderson: Well, did you get the impression I was trying to make you laugh?
Jerry: Tell me that wasn't Brad Anderson,
Morty: Aw, see? You hear that, Morty Jr,? maybe you could try being a creative of some kind,
Mortimer Smith Jr: Maybe! I always have sort of wanted to see my face on the back of a novel, I mean, what I really want to do is slit people's throats, but beyond that,,,
Morty: I know you can do it, son, I think it's time I get a place of my own, I promise I'll call you every day I need money or a place to do laundry, [ Growling affectionately ]
Morty: Aaaaaaah!
Scene Action: [ Whoosh! thud! ] [ Whoosh! thud! ]
Jerry: So, I assume this novel your son writes is gonna pay for my rear axle?
Rick: Isn't it interesting, Summer, that after all that stuff we just did, nothing really mattered and there was no point to it? Kind of makes you wonder, huh -- about nothing?
Summer: Are you sure it doesn't make you re-evaluate your policy about taking girls on adventures?
Rick: No, I'd say, given what we've been through, that I was right the whole time and any epiphanies about gender politics were a projection of your feminine insecurity, But, hey, why don't you have a pink spaceship? Go ride around and have a jolly old time, Maybe that'll shut you up,
Beth: Dad? Summer? Where were you guys this whole time?
Summer: On Gazorpazorp, Where were you?
Beth: I was reading a newspaper,
Rick: Oh, that's interesting, Beth, You know, it's funny, I-I-I heard about a little bit of news myself, Take a look, T-take a listen,
Scene Action: [ Farting ] [ Both laugh ]
Rick: Wubba-lubba-dub-dubs! This this world still got a -- it's still got a chance! Yeah! Ha ha! See you -- see you guys next week! See everybody next week,
Interviewer: Mortimer Smith, Jr, New York Times bestselling author, your book is about innocence, the definition of it, and, inevitably, its impossibility, Is it autobiographical?
Mortimer Smith Jr: Certainly, I mean, all writing is, in my opinion, But, uh -- my, um... My father kept me locked in the house until I was a teenager, and there was violence and, uh, threats of poison gas -- but also dancing,
Interviewer: But you persevered and created this masterpiece from your suffering, Smith Jr,'s mind-bending novel, "My horrible father," in every store and on everyone's mind, Pick it up, We'll be right back,
Beth: It's a thankless job, Morty, You did the best you could,
Morty: I hope he's eating enough. 
TV: Cynthia,,,
Jerry: Oh, my God, No, No,
Summer: I told you,
Beth: Hold on, ,,,Will you please,,, not marry me?
TV: I chose Veronica,
Summer: What?!
Jerry: Yes!
Beth: Called it,
Summer: Why would he chose Veronica?
 Jerry: Because he loves her?
Rick: Well, if it's any consolation, Summer, none of it mattered and the entire show was stupid,
Jerry: Okay, I've got an idea, Rick, You show us your concept of good TV, and we'll crap all over that,
Rick: Thought you'd never ask,
Jerry: Hey,
Morty: Oh, cool, Is that crystallized xanthanite? It conducts electrons across dimensions, Rick: 20% accurate as usual, Morty, The important thing being, I just upgraded our cable package with programing from every conceivable reality,
Jerry: Wait, Does that mean we get Showtime Extreme?
Rick: How about Showtime Extreme in a world where man evolved from corn?
TV Corn 1: We're not so different, We're both corn of action,
TV: Corn 2:Yeah, but one of us is dead is dead corn!
Summer: Boring
Rick: Summer you just spent three months watching a man chose a fake wife,
Jerry: So, what, it'd be better if the people were corn?
Rick: Jerry, you don't get it, This is infinite TV from infinite universes, Look,
Glen: This shit is delicious,
Rick: A movie about a guy eating shit, A violent antique show,
Letterman: It's a pleasure to have you,
Actor Jerry: The pleasure's all mine,   Rick: Letterman from a timeline where Jerry's famous,
Jerry: Wait!
Beth: What in the hell?
Rick: I agree, Where is this going?
Jerry: No, the other thing! Go back,
Rick: Really? All right, fine,
Woman: Glen, this is a court order, It says you can't eat shit anymore,
Rick: All right, Jerry, When you're right, you're right, Now I'm hooked,
Announcer: Coming up next on "Shmloo's the Shmloss," Shmlony has a nightmare,
Shmlony: Shmlantha! Shmlona!
Rick: Amazing -- a dimension where all proper nouns begin with "Shmla,"
Shmlony: Shmla -- shmlangela? Shmlonathan?
Rick: All right, that actually got old pretty quick,
Jerry: Rick, will you please go back to me on "David Letterman"?
Rick: Infinity's a big number, Jerry, I don't remember the channel,
Summer: Ah! Go back! Go back!
Rick: Geez, Actor Jerry: You speak the true-true,
Summer: Oh, my God, Dad's in "Cloud Atlas"!
Jerry: I'm in "Cloud Atlas"! What's "Cloud Atlas"?
Actor Jerry: sometimes, small true-true different than the big true-true,
Beth: How is this possible?
Rick: Infinite timelines, infinite possibilities, including a timeline where Jerry's a movie star, Look, you guys are getting excited about the wrong aspect to this device, Wha -- look at this,
Announcer: And now, another quick mystery,
Cop: I just want to know who could have done something like this, It's a travesty,
Gansta: I did, See this knife and all the blood on it? Here's my fingerprints,
Judge: Guilty, I sentence you to life in prison,
Announcer: Here's another quick mystery,
Victim's Son: My mother's dead,
Killer: And I killed her, Here's the weapon, and cuff me, Thank you very much,
Judge: Guilty, Sentenced to murder,
Scene Action: [ Chokes, gag ]
Announcer: Here's another,
Killer: I'm the killer,
Announcer: Oh, wow, that one was really quick, wasn't it?
Rick: Now, who wants to watch random, crazy tv shows from different dimensions, and -- and then who wants to narcissistically obsess about their alternate selves?
Jerry: I want to obsess about myself,
Rick: [ Sighs ] Here, these scan your retinas and let you view parallel timelines through genetically matching versions of your eyes, Go fetch,
Summer: This is so cool,
Beth: Ladies first,
Rick: I'm proud of you Morty 
Morty: Hey, man, I don't give a crap about myself, Rick, Let's watch some crazy stuff, yo,
Ants in my Eyes Johnson: I'm Ants in my Eyes Johnson, here at Ants in my Eyes Johnson's Electronics, I mean, there's so many ants in my eyes, And there's so many TV, microwaves, radios, I think, I can't -- I'm not 100% sure what we have here in stock because I can't see anything, Our prices, I hope, aren't too low, Check out this refrigerator, only $200, What about this microwave? Only $100, That's fair, I'm Ants in my Eyes Johnson, Everything's black, I can't see a thing, And also, I can't feel anything, either, Did I mention that? But that's not as catchy as having ants in your eyes, so that always goes, you know, off by the wayside, I can't feel, It's a very rare disease, All my -- all my nerves, they don't allow for the sensation of touch, so I never know what's going on, Am I standing, sitting? I don't know,
Beth: Are we sure we want to do this -- look at our own alternate lives?
Jerry: You're right, Maybe we should just play yahtzee, Give me those,
Scene Action: [ Beeping ]
Beth: What do you see?
Jerry: Whiteness -- pure whiteness,
Scene Action: [ Snorting ]
Johnny Depp: You're my best friend, Jerry Smith, I love doing cocaine with you,
Jerry: Whoa, I love doing cocaine with you, too, Johnny Depp,
Beth: Haven't we spent enough time on you? I'm performing surgery... but not on a horse -- on a human,
Jerry: That's great, Beth, You always wanted to be a real surgeon,
Beth: I am a real surgeon,
Jerry: Uh... Summer's turn,
Summer: Finally,
Scene Action: [ Beeping ]
Summer: I don't see anything,
Beth: Well, you should select a different timeline, I mean, if your father and I achieved our dreams, there's a chance you weren't even born, That came out wrong, That came out very wrong,
Summer: Fine, I'll find a world where you bothered to have me,
Scene Action: [ Beeping ]
Summer: We're playing yahtzee,
Beth: Yahtzee's fun, We love Yahtzee,
Jerry: It's a fun game for fun families, Hey, could I get those goggles back ?
Commercial Voiceover: It's a 45-horsepower with antilock brakes, and it's the official car of "Mr, Sneezy 3D," It's the brand-new Sneezy XL, The horn, when you honk it, makes a sneeze noise, It's polite, it's right, and it's sneezy, deezy Mc... deluxe,
Mr. Sneezy: I'm Mr, Sneezy,
Morty: Huh, seems like TV from other dimensions has a somewhat looser feel to it,
Rick: Yeah, it's got an almost improvisational tone,
Trailer Announcer: It's in theaters now, Coming this Summer, Two brothers in a van, and then a meteor hits, And they ran as fast as they could from giant cat monsters, And then a giant tornado came, And that's when things got knocked into 12th gear, A Mexican Armada shows up, with weapons made from t-tomatoes, And you better bet your bottom dollar that these two brothers know how to handle business in "Alien invasion tomato monster" Mexican Armada Brothers, who are just regular brothers, running in a van from an asteroid and all sort of things: The movie," Hold on, There's more, Old women are coming, and they're also in the movie, And they're gonna come and cross attack these two brothers, But let's get back to the brothers, because they're -- they have a strong bond, You don't want to know about it here, but I'll tell you one thing, The moon -- it comes crashing into Earth, And what do you do then? It's two brother and -- and they're gonna -- it's called "Two brothers," "Two brothers," It's just called "Two brothers,"
Beth: Holy crap, I am winning a Nobel Prize,
Jerry: Come on, Time's up, I'm taming a lion, No, wait, There are film cameras, I might be a lion tamer in a movie, You get the idea, I work with lions,
Scene Action: [ Beeping ]
Summer: Ohh, we're not playing Yahtzee, We're playing Chutes and Ladders, Seems like when I exist, life gets a little more -- I don't know -- predictable?
Beth: When two people create a life together, they set aside their previous lives as individuals,
Jerry: Give me a break, We're not heroes for having unprotected sex on prom night,
Beth: Oh, I get it, Now that you know you could have had it better, you resent me for holding you back,
Jerry: Well, now that we know you think the tables are turning, we know you thought there were unturned tables,
Beth: What are you talking about?
Jerry: All this time, you've been thinking, "What if that loser, Jerry, hadn't talked me out of the abortion?" Well, now you know you'd be a doctor, Whoop-de-do, You'd also be drinking wine alone in a house full of exotic birds, And I'd be on Dicaprio's yacht, banging Kristen Stewart,
Summer: You thought about getting an abortion?
Beth: Everyone thinks about it, Obviously, I'm the version of me that didn't do it, so you're welcome,
Jerry: Yeah, you're welcome,
Summer: Yeah, thank you guys so much, It's a real treat to be raised by parents that forced themselves to be together instead of being happy,
Rick: Hey, do we have any wafer cookies? Mmm! Oh, boy, Looks like you guys have been checking out alternate lives and realizing you don't have it as good, huh? That's too bad, You know, me and Morty are having a blast, We just discovered a show called "Ball Fondlers," I mean, I don't want to rub it in or anything, but you guys clearly backed the wrong conceptual horse,
Rick: I'm in heaven right now,
Morty: This might be the best day of my life,
Beth: So, now what do we do?
Jerry: That show "Ball Fondlers" sounded kind of interesting,
Summer: Dad!
Jerry: What?! they're having fun in there, What do you guys want from me? Every family on this block has to wonder if they're together by choice, Our family just has interdimensional goggles to show us for a fact that we're not,
Summer: Well, I'm leaving,
Beth: You can't leave, You're 17,
Summer: Yeah, and I'm not pregnant, I'm gonna have better judgment than you guys had at my age, I'm gonna move to the southwest and... I don't know, do something with turquoise,
SNL Announcer: It's "Saturday Night Live," Starring a piece of toast, two guys with handlebar mustaches, a man painted silver who makes robot noises, Gar ma nar nar, three, um, um, um,,, I'll get back to that one, a hole in the wall where the men can see it all, and returning for his 25th consecutive year, Bobby Moynihan!
Rick: Interesting fun fact -- Moynihan and a piece of toast hate each other, Apparently, they've got some real creative differences,
Fakedoor salesman: Hey, are you tired of real doors cluttering up your house, where you open them and you actually go somewhere, and you go into another room? Get on down to real fake doors, That's us, Fill a whole room up with them, See, watch, Check this out, Won't open, Won't open, Not this one, Not this one, None of them open, Fakedoors,com is our website, so check it out for a lot of really great deals on fake do-o-o-o-rs!
Morty: Hey, wait a minute, Rick, I thought this was a commercial, What's going on?
Rick: Relax, Morty, Don't -- don't worry about it, Let's just see where this goes,
Fakedoor salesman: Step on it! We all get places to be! Son of a bitch,
Morty: Oh, that must be where he lives, Okay,
Rick: Huh, He's making himself a sandwich now,
Fakedoor salesman: Hey, everybody, So, this is my house, Just made a sandwich -- peanut butter and jelly, Still here, still selling fake doors,
Morty: What?
Rick: Oh, my god, It's still the commercial,
Fakedoor salesman: We have fake doors like you wouldn't believe, What are you worried about? Come get fake doors, Call us up and order some fake doors today, Don't even hesitate, don't even worry, - and don't even -- Rick: All right, I'm bored, Change it,
Morty: Wait, wait, Rick, Hold on, hold on,
Fakedoor salesman: That's our slogan, See it on the bottom of the screen below our name, Here's another slogan right below that one, What are you worried about? Come get fake doors, Get in here quick, get out quicker with an arm of fake doors in your arms,
Morty: Okay, okay, you can change it,
Fakedoor salesman: Don't even worry about it,
Scene Action: [ Yawn ]
Gazorpazorpfield: I hate mamumanums-days, and I really could go for some enchiladas, Morty: Hey, Rick, that's pretty cool, It's just like garfield, only instead it's Gazorpazorpfield,
Rick: Hey, isn't Gazorpazorp where -- where those sex robots came from? Remember that whole thing?
Morty: Yeah, Hey, that's a pretty -- pretty -- that's true, That's right,
Rick: Yeah, Let's watch some more Gazorpazorpfield,
Gazorpazorpfield: Hey, John, It's me, Gazorpazorpfield, Boy [ Bleep ] you, John, you [ Bleep ] dumb, stupid idiot,
John: Come on, Gazorpazorpfield, Go easy on me, huh?
Gazorpazorpfield: You dumb, stupid, weak, pathetic, white, white, uh... guilt -- white-guilt milquetoast piece of human garbage,
John: Geez, Gazorpazorpfield, that's -- you know, you're pretty mean to me, but that takes the cake,
Gazorpazorpfield: I don't give a [ Bleep ] I'm Gazorpazorp[ Bleep ]field, bitch, Now give me my [ Bleep ] Enchiladas,
Morty: Hey, Rick, you know, did they use Bill Murray for this? Sounds a lot like Bill Murray,
Rick: No, Morty, it's Lorenzo Music, In this reality, he's still alive,
Morty: Oh, okay, Was his name "Lorenzo Music"?
Rick: Yeah, I'm pretty sure, He also did the voice of that one guy from "Ghostbusters," which is really strange because it's the same character Bill Murray played in the movie, But then, when they made the movie, Bill murray did the voice of Gazorpazorp-- or Garfield, I mean,
Morty: Yeah, that's pretty cool, Rick, So all that happened in this reality, too?
Rick: I don't know, Just making conversation with you, Morty, What, you think I'm a -- I'm -- I know everything about everything?
Beth: Did you really talk me out of the abortion?
Jerry: Well, we -- we blew a tire on the way to the clinic,
Beth: I think, in my head, I was doing it all for the kids, And now the first kid is going to do something with turquoise,
Jerry: Which is either code for crystal meth or a gateway to it,
Beth: So we didn't do the kids any favors, So we should stay together for each other and ourselves or...
Jerry: Or...
Political Ad: Man, woman, and now trunkman? We know science has created men that have a trunk that allows them to have sex with both male and female partners, But we don't like the idea of these people getting married, Put a line in the sand, everybody, Vote "No" on proposition XW2, The act that says trunk people can get married, Who needs it? Not on my watch, Paid for by Michael Denny and the Denny singers,
Trunkperson: Hi, I'm a trunkperson, and I want -- I feel love in my heart, too, just like you, I want to be able to express that love with both a man and a woman, And I won't be able to if Denny and the Denny singers get their way, Hey, let the trunkpeople have sex and get married, huh? Paid for by trunkpeople,
Mr. Tophat Jones: Oh, I love me strawberry sniggles, Ooh, I hope nobody ever gets my hands on me and tries to steal my strawberry smiggles, I'm gonna eat every last one of them, because -- and then they'll be in my stomach, and nobody will ever be able to eat them, Except for me, because they're gonna be all inside my stomach, Um, my name is Mr, Tophat Jones, and God forbid anyone ever take my sner-- little-people snibbles, I'm keeping them all for me, Mmm, Mmm, Last bite, Oh, now they're all resting comfortably in my stomach, Ooh, am I feeling good, No! Get away from me! Get away from me! There's no more strawberry snibbles -- no! [ Chokes, sputt ] Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ! It hurts! My entrails are out! Why would you even want to eat these? They're soaked with my stomach acid, Oh, Jesus Christ, lord, savior, and spirit, save me, Take me to the light, Oh, my God, I see demons, I see demons are coming!
Morty: Geez, Rick, Oh, my God, That's some pretty hard-core stuff, you know, for a cereal commercial,
Rick: Well, you know, Morty I mean, you want to sell boxes of cereal, you got to pump the gas a little, Pedal to the metal, Morty,
Trailer Announcer: In a world where muscular mannies are coming, and they're coming strong, there's only three unmuscular michaels, Get down, Hurry, Run, [ Screeching ] And that's when real turbulent juice is coming, and you got to take care of it, With Turbulent juice, turbulent tables, no room is safe from the turbulent power of Turbulent juice,
Morty: What in the hell?
Rick: Sex sells, Morty,
Morty: Sex sells what? Was that a movie or, like, does it clean stuff?
Jerry: [ Sighs ]
Morty: Hey, dad,
Jerry: God,
Morty: What's going on?
Jerry: Well, your mother and I are gonna be spending some time apart, Morty, And your sister found out she was an unwanted pregnancy,
Morty: What?
Rick: Speaking of what, Morty what should we watch next? What about this? Detective: Babylegs, you're a good detective, But not good enough, because of your baby legs, So I'm partnering you up with regular legs,
Regular Legs: Hey, there,
Baby Legs: Detective, I'm -- this is upsetting to me, because I feel like I don't need no regular-leg partner,
Detective: Babylegs, don't talk back to me, Good luck, you two, There's a criminal to kill,
Scene Action: [ Slurp ]
Regular Legs: Wow, you sure found this guy quick,
Baby Legs: Uh, yeah, because I'm a good detective,
Regular Legs: Look, Babylegs, It's the criminal,
Killer: Oh [ Bleep ] I'm the killer, I'm running, I'm running real quick,
Baby Legs: Babylegs, here we go! That's the sound I make when I'm trying to run fast, All right, I'm not gonna get him, I just learned a real valuable lesson,
Regular Legs: I'm coming, Babylegs, I'm... regular legs,
Regular Legs: We got him,
Baby Legs: Hey, that was good teamwork,
Detective: Babylegs and regular legs, I'm proud of you two for working together, And, Babylegs, I know it was hard for you to come to the conclusion that you need a partner, but I'm proud of you that you did it,
Baby Legs: Hey, thanks, chief,
Detective: Now get the [ Bleep ] out of here,
Rick: Pretty cool, huh, Morty?
Jerry: I thought it was cool,
Rick: I don't give a [ Bleep ] What you think, Jerry,
Scene Action: [ Click ]
Morty: Hey, uh, y-you doing okay? I kind of know how you feel, Summer,
Summer: No, you don't, You're the little brother, You're not the cause of your parents misery, You're just a symptom of it,
Morty: Can I show you something?
Summer: Morty, no offense, but a drawing of me you made when you were 8 isn't gonna make me feel like less of an accident,
Morty: That out there? That's my grave,
Summer: Wait, what?
Morty: On one of our adventures, Rick and I basically destroyed the whole world, so we bailed on that reality, and we came to this one, Because in this one, the world wasn't destroyed, And in this one, we were dead, So we came here and -- and we buried ourselves, and we took their place, And every morning, Summer, I eat breakfast 20 yards away from my own rotting corpse,
Summer: So you're not my brother?
Morty: I'm better than your brother, I'm a version of your brother you can trust when he says "Don't run," Nobody exists on purpose, Nobody belongs anywhere, Everybody's gonna die, Come watch TV,
Trailer Announcer: Mrs, Sullivan always planned to leave everything to her cats, But sometimes, plans need a helping paw,
Scene Action: [ Thunder rumbles ]
Trailer Announcer: What are the kitties to do but buckle together and work as a team?
Lawyer: Mrs, Sullivan, I -- please, forgive me for being forward, but your eyes are so beautiful,
Scene Action: [ Cats ]
Jerry: Wait, This is an actual movie?
Trailer Announcer: This fall, sparks will fly...
Scene Action: [ Moaning ]
Lawyer: Mrs, Sullivan, Ohh, 
Trailer Announcer: Between one guy who can't get a break 
Lawyer: there's something about you, Mrs, Sullivan, 
Trailer Announcer: And nine cats who break all the rules, "Last will and testi-meow: Weekend at dead cat lady's house II,"
Jerry: Well, somebody in hollywood just lost their job,
Trailer Announcer: Written and directed by Jerry Smith,
Jerry: I wrote and directed that? What am I, nuts?
Rick: Oh, hey, Morty, You just missed a preview for your dad's "Citizen kane,"
Morty: Doesn't matter,
Jerry: Hey, if your mother and I had to split custody, who would you guys chose?
Summer: Doesn't matter,
Reporter: Breaking news -- academy award-winning actor Jerry smith is leading police on a slow-speed pursuit after suffering an apparent breakdown,
Jerry: Don't even think about it,
Rick: Come on, Are you kidding me, Jerry? It's just a bunch of dumb tabloid crap,
Jerry: It's my life, and we're watching it,
Beth: You did it, Beth, You really nailed it, You're a surgeon -- a human surgeon, Yay, you win, [ Slurps ]
Jerry: Where the hell am I going?
Rick: Wh-- what are you asking me for, Jerry? I'm sitting here trying to figure out why the cops don't just take you out, I mean they got a clear shot to your head, I can't believe our tax dollars pay for this,
Scene Action: [ Doorbell rings ]
Beth: Jerry? Jerry smith?
Actor Jerry: Beth Sanchez, I have been in love with you since high school, I hate acting, I hate cocaine, I hate Kristen Stewart, I wish you hadn't gotten that abortion, and I've never stopped thinking about what might have been,
Scene Action: ♪ Give me a name ♪ ♪ Hear my faith ♪ ♪ Seal my fate ♪ ♪ And when you breathe ♪ ♪ You breathe for two ♪
Rick: Hey, "Ball Fondlers"? Huh, "Ball Fondlers"?
Summer: Yeah, I could go for some "Ball Fondlers,"
Morty: Yeah, "Ball Fondlers,"
Scene Action: [ Metal music playing ] Aah!
Hamster Reporter: Ha ha, hamster in Butt world weather is done, and now it's sports time coming up, Oh, hello, there, Good day to you, miss,
Beth: So, the hamster live inside the rectums of those people?
Rick: Yes, sweetie, That's where the live,
Jerry: Well, how does that work? I mean, do the butts look like little apartments inside?
Morty: Yeah, and can they leave the butt and, like, walk around on their own?
Rick: Look, I don't know, I'm watching the same thing you guys are,
Summer: Grandpa Rick, if they leave the butt and the person wanders off, how would they find their butt person again?
Rick: I don't know, Summer, I can't even hear the TV, All right, that's it, We're just gonna go there so you idiots can ask your stupid questions all day,
Jerry: Ooh, family vacation!
Scene Action: [ Popping ]
Jerry: [ Sighs ]
Morty: Hey, Rick, I have to make a project for the science fair this weekend, You think you could help me out?
Rick: Whatever,
Jerry: Well, I mean, traditionally, science fairs are a father-son thing,
Rick: Well, scientifically, traditions are an idiot thing,
Beth: Morty, I think it would be fun for you to work on a science project with your dad,
Scene Action: [ Cellphone beeps ]
Morty: [ Clears throat ] Yeah, dad, Why don't we do it together?
Jerry: Yes! You backed the right horse on this one, son, We'll get out the crayons, brew some coffee, and knock this thing out in two or three days,
Robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: Pass the butter, Thank you,
Scene Action: [ Popping ]
Summer: Dad, I need a ride to work,
Jerry: Maybe Rick can give you a ride, I'm helping Morty with science,
Rick: I'm busy,
Summer: Doing what?
Rick: Uh, anything else, Robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: You pass butter,
Robot: Oh, my God,
Rick: Yeah, welcome to the club, pal,
Rick: Since when you have a job?
Summer: Since last week, It's part-time at this little vintage thrift store, My boss is this really smart, eccentric old man that treats me nice and values me,
Rick: Meow, Can't wait to meet this Fascinating character,
Summer: Please don't, Goldenfold: Oh, Well, when did this stop being jamba juice?
Mr. Needful: I've just recently opened for business, mister, um, Goldenfold,
Goldenfold: You know my name? That's disarming,
Mr. Needful: I also know you long for female company, Goldenfold: You know, it has been lonely since the divorce, Some voids can't be filled with jamba juice,
Mr. Needful: This aftershave makes a man quite irresistible to women, Free of charge, One never pays here -- not with money, Goldenfold: Nothing to read into there, Thanks!
Summer: Sorry I'm late, Mr, Needful, This is my grandpa, Rick, He was just leaving,
Rick: Huh,
Mr. Needful: Tell me, Rick, what do you desire?
Rick: Eh, I make my own stuff, So, what are you -- like, the devil?
Mr. Needful: What? Sorry?
Rick: I don't know, Store comes out of nowhere, all the shit's old and creepy, Are you the devil? A demon? Leprechaun?
Summer: Grandpa Rick!
Rick: Hey, I'm not judging, Just like shoot straight, I'm a man of science,
Mr. Needful: Ah, then perhaps you could make use of this, This microscope reveals things beyond comprehension,
Scene Action: [ Laughs ]
Rick: [ Laughs ]
Scene Action: [ Laughs louder ]
Rick: [ Laughs louder ]
Scene Action: [ Laughs louder ]
Rick: [ Laughs louder ]
Summer: Grandpa, go home and drink,
Scene Action: [ Swoop! ]
Jerry: Why don't we do a model of the solar system? That's what my dad did with me when I was your age,
Morty: Oh, okay,
Jerry: You know, Rick's in his lab, making cyborgs and wormholes and all that weird stuff, but this is real science, A man and his boy, making planets, Hey, how about we use a ping-pong ball for Pluto? And then Jupiter --
Morty: Uh, actually, I don't think Pluto's a planet,
Jerry: [ Chuckles ] Of course Pluto's a planet, son, I learned that in the third grade,
Morty: Well, yeah, but you know they changed it,
Jerry: Morty, nobody changed the planets,
Morty: I just Googled it, Pluto's not a planet, They changed it in 2006,
Jerry: Yeah, I heard about that, Morty, And I disagree,
Morty: You disagree?
Jerry: That's right, It's possible to disagree in science, Morty, Pluto was a planet, Some committee of fancy assholes disagree, I disagree back, Give me a ping-pong ball,
Morty: Um, okay, I-I just have to,,,
Jerry: Go find Rick and go over my head about Pluto?
Morty: No, Geez, I just got to go to the bathroom, Damn,
Jerry: Oh, Okay, good, This is gonna be fun,
Rick: Hey, Morty, let me--let me-- let me ask you a question real quick, Does evil exist, and if so, - can one detect and measure it?
Morty: Um...
Rick: Rhetorical question, Morty, The answer's "yes, you just have to be a genius," Cute, Your sister's boss gave me a microscope that would have made me retarded,
Morty: Ooh, Oh, boy, Rick, I'm don't think you're allowed to say that word, you know?
Rick: Morty, I'm not disparaging the differently abled, I'm stating the fact that if I had used this microscope, it would have made me mentally retarded,
Morty: Okay, yeah, but I don't think it's about logic, Rick, I think the word has just become a symbolic issue for powerful groups that feel like they're doing the right thing,
Rick: Well, that's retarded,
Jerry: What are you guys talking about?
Rick: Apparently, nothing,
Jerry: You asked him if Pluto's a planet, didn't you?
Morty: No!
Rick: It's not,
Jerry: Shut up, Rick, I don't care what anyone says, If I can be a planet, it can be a planet again, Planet, Planet, planet, planet,
Rick: Stay scientific, Jerry,
Goldenfold: This aftershave made women want me, but it also made me impotent! Mr. Needful: A price for everything, Mr, Goldenfold, A price for everything, [ Laughs evilly ]
Goldenfold: Oh, my God! How could I not see this coming?! [ Sobbing ] My lust! My greed! I deserved this!
Rick: This serum should counteract the negative effects,
Goldenfold: Holy cats! Ladies, let's get out of here, I haven't learned a thing!
Rick: Here, You can have this back,
Mr. Needful: You didn't use it?
Rick: Sure I did -- to develop this, It detects and catalogs all your "Twilight Zone," Ray Bradbury, "Friday the 13th" the series voodoo crap magic, I thought you might want it so you didn't accidentally sell anybody, say,,, A typewriter that generates best-selling murder mysteries and then makes the murders happen in real life? Ooh,
Mr. Needful: Be quite,
Rick: Don't you want to make sure people know what they're getting? You're not intentionally selling,,, Beauty cream that makes ugly ladies pretty but also makes them blind?
Mr. Needful: I find this all quite preposterous,
Rick: Oh, I say, good sir, Oh, harrumph, Oh, oh
Scene Action: [BABBLES ]
Customer: That's beautiful,
Rick: You know it's gonna be wearing you in three hours?
Mr. Needful: Do I need to call the police?
Rick: Here, you can use my phone, Don't worry, It won't make you deaf because I'm not a hack, You think you're [BLEEP ] so great, you stupid piece of [BLEEP ] shit,
Summer: Stop! Hey! Stop it right now! Grandpa Rick, I like working here,
Rick: You work for the devil,
Summer: So what?
Both: "so what?"
Summer: Yes, so what if he's the devil, Rick? At least the devil has a job, At least he's active in the community, What do you do? You eat our food and make gadgets, Buh-bye,
Rick: Whoops,
Scene Action: [ Giggles ]
Summer: I'm sorry, Mr, Needful, I'll clean that up, I don't know what I can do about the ghost lady - that came out of it, but --
Mr. Needful: It's fine, Summer, you know, your grandfather's right, This store curses people, That's my business,
Summer: Well, yeah, Fast-food gives people diabetes, and clothing stores have sweatshops, Is there a company hiring teenagers that isn't evil? This is my first job, You've been nice to me, Mr, Needful, You respect me,
Mr. Needful: Please, call me "the devil,"
Summer: I'd rather not,,,
Mr. Needful: Yes, perhaps not during business hours,
Jerry: I told you, I want to file a declaration that Pluto is a planet, Well, then my son's going to fail his science class, and when that happens, I'm suing you first, I think I know what the "A" in NASA stands for,
Morty: Dad, what's your endgame?
Jerry: Ain't no game, sucka,
Morty: Why don't we just make the solar system with eight planets? It's even easier,
Jerry: Sure, sure, and why don't we just burn Galileo at the stake for saying the sun is round? Science isn't always easy, Morty,
Jerry: Whoa!
Morty: Whoa!
Jerry: What the hell?!
Scene Action: [ Both groaning ] [ Ting! ] [ Hisses, buzzes ]
King Flippy Nips: I'm King Flippy Nips, ruler of Pluto, We discovered you quite by accident during routine surveillance of your world, You really gave it to those guys at NASA,
Jerry: I was -- you know, sometimes science is about conviction, King Flippy Nips: It'd like to introduce you to a few people that very much agree with you,
Jerry: Oh, I...
King Flippy Nips: Plutonians, Jerry Smith is a scientist from earth, where he's creating a model of our solar system, Jerry, tell Pluto about your decision,
Jerry: [ Clears throat ] Um... Pluto's a planet,
Scene Action: [ Cheers and applause ]
Jerry: Pluto's a [BLEEP] planet, bitch!
Morty: Oh, man, This is definitely gonna go to his head,
Mr. Needful: If it's athletic prize you desire, Principal Vagina, I might -- Principal Vagina: I'll take it,
Mr. Needful: B-but I haven't even --
Principal Vagina: Thank you very, very much, Great store, Great place, Bye,
Mr. Needful: Huh, Okay, I must say, Summer, I thought your grandfather's outburst would have disrupted business, but this is the best weekend I've had since Salem,
Summer: Nice, "Wholesome Delight" for lunch?
Mr. Needful: Is that the Vegan place?
Summer: Yeah, I love their soup,
Mr. Needful: I'm kind of soup-ed out, Mrs. Tate, is it? What do you desire? Whoa, whoa, slow down, honey,
Mrs. Tate: Oh, is there a limit? Everything's free, right?
Summer: Let's just say you don't pay,,,with money,
Scene Action: [ Both chuckle ]
Mr. Needful: That was perfect,
Mrs. Tate: You pay with the curses, right?
Mr. Needful: Um... I -- well... but, Mrs. Tate, why do you want cursed items?
Mrs. Tate: Well, I'm going to get the curses removed at "Curse Purge Plus," You know, the guy on TV?
Scene Action: [ Door closes ]
Mr. Needful: What?
Rick: Have you acquired creepy specific old stuff from a mysterious antique or thrift store that gives you powers but [BLEEP] with you in unforeseeable ways? Bring it to "Curse Purge Plus," I use science to un-curse the items for cash, and you get to keep the powers, This guy got mysterious sneakers to make him run faster, but guess what? He would have had to run until he died, making them worthless, I removed the curse, making them worth, like, I don't know, $8 million, See you at the olympics, This eerily intelligent doll was threatening to murder its family, Now it does their taxes, Everything's deductible, Don't pay for cool stuff with your soul, Pay for it with money, You know, like how every other store in the world works? We're located at first and main in old town, Come on -- come on down, "first and,,," [ Babbles ] ,,,"needful things," where you can get evil items for free!
Mr. Needful: Diabolic son of a motherf--
Plutonian Interviewer: We're back on "Good Morning, Pluto," And a very good morning it is for our guest, Earth scientist Jerry Smith, who's making headlines with his bold announcement that is what, Jerry?
Jerry: Pluto is a planet,
Plutonian Interviewer: Well, how about that, I love it,
Scroopy Noopers: Morty Smith, I'm Scroopy Noopers, I'm a scientist, Can I show you something?
Morty: Uh, I better not, Right now,
Scene Action: [ Blurp! ]
Scroopy Noopers: The center of Pluto, Mr, Smith, is made of a substance called "Plutonium," Mines like these suck Plutonium up to the cities, where corporations use it to power everything, from diamond cars to golden showers, And the more we remove, the more Pluto shrinks, [ Rumbles ] There it goes again, Just shrank a little, But a few years ago, your scientists noticed Pluto had gotten so small they couldn't even call it a "planet" anymore, Should've been our wake-up call, But the rich Plutonians won't wake up, and they love your dad telling everyone Pluto's a planet because that means they can keep mining until Pluto goes from planet to asteroid to meteor, and finally,,, [BLOWS ]
Morty: Um, a party?
Scroopy Noopers: Is everyone in your family an idiot?
Morty: Well, for sure me and my dad are,
Scroopy Noopers: Well, all you have to do is get him to admit that, and you could save four billion lives,
Morty: Yeah, you know, the thing is my dad's really insecure,
Summer: Hmm, Funny, Mr, Needful, out of everything in the store, you'll never guess what we couldn't get rid of,
Scene Action: [ Sputtering ]
Summer: Oh, my God,
Scene Action: [ Grunting ]
Summer: Oh, my God, I wish this desk was lighter, I wish this knot was looser,
Scene Action: [ Grunts ]
Summer: Come on, [ Blows ]
Summer: I don't -- Wait, what am I doing? I wish I knew CPR,
Scene Action: [ Chokes, sputters ]
Mr. Needful: Oh, Jesus, What a waste of a monkey paw,
Summer: Mr, Needful, how could you even think of doing something so horrible?
Mr. Needful: I'm the devil, What should I do when I fail -- get myself an ice cream?
Summer: You haven't failed,
Mr. Needful: People like Rick are making me obsolete, I mean, seriously, I may be "the devil," but your grandpa is the devil, I just want to go back to hell, where everyone thinks I'm smart and funny,
Summer: No! It's not fair, Everyone in this town got something they wanted from you -- even Rick, I was your only friend, and I get nothing?
Mr. Needful: Okay, I'll give you one thing, Name it,
Summer: I want to help you,
Mr. Needful: Clever twist,
Summer: I learned from the best, you old fart, Now, let's go get you hydrated,
Rick: Looks like we've got,,, haunted boxing gloves that will make you the heavyweight champion in 1936, and then you'll be trapped there, winning the same fight for eternity, I can take out the "eternity" And the padding, and then you'll have some time-traveling mittens, Oh, look, it's Rosemary's baby, How's business?
Summer: Here's the last of our inventory, We're going to file chapter 11 and do some restructuring,
Rick: Sounds like code for "You win, Rick,"
Summer: That was important to you, wasn't it?
Rick: Nope, It was important to your dumb devil friend, To me, this was all just a bit, like when Bugs Bunny [BLEEP ] With the opera singer for 20 minutes,
Summer: He tried to kill himself,
Rick: Seriously? Holy crap, Holy crap,
Summer: But you know what, grandpa Rick? He's strong, and he's never going to give up,
Rick: Uh-huh, yeah, I don't care,
Summer: Oh, I know, Everyone knows you don't care,
Rick: So?
Summer: So have fun not caring,
Rick: I always do,
Summer: Good,
Rick: Yeah, it is good, It's the best,
Summer: I'm sure it is, Bye,
Rick: Later,
Customer: I'm here to pick up my undead cat and child,
Rick: Yeah, uh... give me a sec,
Employee: These are the forms for the employee health plan,
Rick: All right, yeah, put -- put them on my,,,eh, I just got bored, Everybody out,
Jerry: All right, just one more rally, then I promise we'll get back to your science project,
Morty: Dad, Pluto isn't a planet, It's shrinking because of corporations,
Jerry: Yeah, that's what that anti-planet nut job Scroopy Noopers was screaming about outside the ministry of money's fundraiser, Are you telling me four billion Plutonians are wrong?
Morty: You said science wasn't easy,
Jerry: I said science isn't always easy, Obviously, that means sometimes it is easy, Let's not debase ourselves with word games, son,
Morty: Dad, their whole planet is dying,
Jerry: Ha! You called it a planet, Checkmate,
King Flippy Nips: What's up, Pluto? [ Cheers and applause ] [ Classical music plays ] Mr, Smith, please tell my friend here what you just told me, Go on,
Jerry: My very eager mother just served us nine pickles, and the "pickles" is Pluto, Plutonian: My God, the man's a genius,
Morty: Um, excuse me,
Jerry: Morty, what?
Morty: Dad, what did you think about the recent report published by the Pluto science reader linking Pluto-quakes, sinkholes, and surface shrinkage to deep-core Plutonium drilling?
Jerry: Well, son, what did you think when you were 5 and you pooped your pants, and you threw your poopy undies out your bedroom window because you thought it was like throwing something in the garbage? [ Laughter ] I mean, I'm trimming the hedges, and these things are just hanging there, Was I supposed to think the poop bunny left them?
Morty: Good one, dad,
Rick: Hey, Morty, you want to go on a ,,, oh, Hey, Beth, Hello? Hey, Jerry, you in here being stupid?
Scene Action: [ Sighs, burps ] [ Robot whirs ]
Rick: Thanks, Hey, you know, I was thinking, you know, I might watch a movie,
Robot: I am not programmed for friendship,
 Rick: Suit yourself, [ Burps ] [ Hums ] Hey,Hey, W-w-what's going on?
Morty: Um, listen, can you help me do the stupid science fair project?
Rick: Whatever,
King Flippy Nips: Jerry, you must be so excited, The Pluto-bel prize is the highest honor a scientist can receive,
Jerry: I'm flattered and humbled,
King Flippy Nips: Oh, I like that, Use that in your speech, Also, talk about Pluto being a planet, People like that,
Plutonian Guard: Your highness, we've captured Scroopy Noopers,
Scroopy Noopers: You animals! Animals!
King Flippy Nips: Ooh, look who's little journey's come to an end, Take him to Pluto-namo bay,
Scroopy Noopers: You can't kill the truth, father,
Jerry: What?
King Flippy Nips: I can see you're confused, Pluto-namo bay is a military prison -- a sort of play on words,
Jerry: Did he call you "father"? Scroopy Noopers, the anti-planet nut job, is your son?
King Flippy Nips: The young eat the old if you let them, Jerry, Pluto is a cold, cold celestial dwarf, Jerry: It's a what?
King Flippy Nips: Huh? Oh, planet, [ Laughs ] "Pluto is a cold, cold planet," That's what I meant, Knock them dead out there, you,
Jerry: Pluto is... [ Sighs ] Not a planet,
Scene Action: [ Shouting ]
Jerry: Ow! It's not a planet, Hey! It's not a planet! I'm an idiot, and I love my son,
Mr. Needful: It was a long six hours, but we've overhauled "needful things" Into the globally-compliant web 4,0 "e-nomenon," n33dful,com, spelled with threes instead of "e's,"
Scene Action: [ Cheering ]
Mr. Needful: Okay, that's it, We just got bought by Google!
Summer: Mm, I'm so proud of you, Lucius, So, how much did we make?
Scene Action: [ Chuckling ]
Mr. Needful: "We," This is my business, Security!
Summer: You're Zuckerberg-ing me?
Mr. Needful: I was Zuckerberg-ing people before Zuckerberg's balls dropped, I'm the devil, bitch!
Summer: What, what?!
Scene Action: [ Fiddle plays ]
Jerry: Hey!
Jerry: Hey, Morty,
Morty: Oh, oh, hey, dad, Um, what -- what are you doing back from Pluto so quick?
Jerry: Uh,,,some people just can't handle the truth, Especially dummies like me, Morty, I'm not as smart as your grandpa Rick, but I promise never to make that your problem again,
Morty: Hey, dad, Nobody's smarter than Rick, but nobody else is my dad, You're a genius at that,
Jerry: Wow, That's... humbling and flattering, son, Thank you, Let's say we finish ourselves an eight-planet solar system?
Morty: Um... I'm just gonna take this thing in and get an "A",
Robot: Butter,
Morty: You're a genius at being my dad, dad, Quit while you're ahead, And also, knock next time, you know? I mean, I'm sitting in here, I'm 14 -- I got a computer in here, you know?
Jerry: Oh, I -- I think I understand,
Morty: You're really playing with fire when you burst in here like that, man,
Jerry: I get it, Say no more,
Morty: I mean, one of these days, you know, you're gonna end up seeing something,
Jerry: I got it! Noted, Good night,
Scene Action: [ Metal music playing ]
Rick: How's your pretend grandpa doing, aka "the devil"?
Summer: He dumped me,
Rick: Oof, Sorry,
Summer: Did we learn a lesson here I'm not seeing?
Rick: Not sure,
Summer: Maybe in a much bigger way, Mr, Needful gave us both what we really wanted? Because I was always jealous of you hanging out with Morty, and you didn't realize how much you valued my approval?
Rick: No, that's dumb,
Summer: Yeah, not satisfying,
Rick: I'll tell you what, though, If -- if -- if it's satisfaction you're after, I think I might have an idea,
Scene Action:  Uh-huh, Uh-huh, Uh-huh, totally, Let's do it, ♪ X gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Wait for you to get it on your own ♪ ♪ X gonna deliver to ya ♪ ♪ Knock knock, open up the door, it's real ♪ ♪ With the non-stop pop pop and stainless steel ♪ ♪ Go hard, getting busy with it ♪ ♪ But I got such a good heart ♪ ♪ that I'll make the mother wonder if he did it ♪ ♪ Damn right, and I'll do it again ♪ ♪ 'cause I am right so I gots to win ♪ ♪ Break bread with the enemy ♪ ♪ But no matter how many cats I break bread with ♪ ♪ I'll break who you -- ♪
Mr. Needful: And that's how I took my storefront into the forefront of the up front, Thank you, seattle,
Scene Action: [ Cheers and applause ]
Mr. Needful: Rick? Summer?
Scene Action: [ Audience groans ]
Rick: Stupid mother[BLEEP ]
Summer: You stupid bitch,
Rick: Stupid mother[BLEEP ] How do you like that? How do you like that?
Summer: [ Grunts ] [ Groans ]
Mr. Needful: W-w-why?
Summer: Because sometimes what you really need is for someone else to pay a horrible price,
Scene Action: [ Whimpers ]
Summer: [ Spits ]
Rick: We did it,
Summer: Yeah, bro,
Rick: It was totally worth it, We did it, We just pulled it off,
Summer: Yeah, bro, Yeah,
Scene Action: ♪ Bitch, please if the only thing you cats did ♪ ♪ was came out to play ♪ ♪ Stay out my way, mother ♪ ♪ First we gonna rock, then we gonna roll ♪ ♪ Then we let it pop, don't let it go ♪ ♪ X gonna give it to ya He gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ X gonna give it to ya He gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ First we gonna rock, then we gonna roll ♪ ♪ Then we let it pop, don't let it go ♪ ♪ X gonna give it to ya, he gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ X gonna give it to ya, he gonna give it to ya ♪ ♪ Ain't never gave nothing to me ♪ 
Scene Action: [The Smith family is seen sitting around the table eating breakfast. The viewer at this point doesn't know that this scene is set in a dimension that is not Dimension C-137 with a different Smith family, but this will be apparent at the end of the scene.]
Beth: So dad, guess what tomorrow is...
Rick: Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday.
Beth: No... well, it might be...
Rick: It is.
Beth: Fine, but also, tomorrow is your one year anniversary back in our lives. I'm gonna make you flying saucer-shaped pancakes.
Rick: Oh, there's no need to do that, Beth. Regular pancakes are fine.
Scene Action: (A portal appears on their wall and Evil Rick and Evil Morty emerge from it carrying a gun and a tranquilizer respectively. Evil Rick shoots Rick in the head and kills him. Evil Morty shoots Morty in the shoulder with his tranquilizer and he passes out. Evil Morty then drags Morty across the breakfast table and he and Evil Rick drag Morty through the portal, and the portal disappears. The family screams in horror the entire time.)
Scene Action: [Opening sequence plays]
Scene Action: (The Smith family is seen sitting around the table eating breakfast. This scene takes place in Dimension C-137)
Beth: Happy anniversary, dad!
Rick: Oh, I get it. Regular pancakes are already shaped like flying saucers. [takes bite] Mmm, I should be making you breakfast for putting up with me.
Jerry: Should be making us a whole restaurant.
Beth: Nonsense, we couldn’t be happier to have you around. I just wish I got to see more of you.
Scene Action: (Three armed Ricks come into the room through a portal)
Rick 1: Rick Sanchez of Earth dimension C-137. You are under arrest for crimes against alternate Ricks by the authority of the transdimensional council of Ricks.
Jerry: Hey! What the heck?
Rick 1: Neutralise the Jerry.
Jerry: Wait, no!
Scene Action: (Rick 2 shoots at Jerry, freezing him)
Summer: Dad!
Beth: Dad!
Morty: Rick!
Rick : Everybody relax. If I know these a-holes, and I am these a-holes, they just wanna haul me to their stupid clubhouse and waste my time with a bunch of questions. Let’s get it over with.
Rick 1: Bring his mo-[belches]-orty.
Morty: Oh, man.
Rick : Leave my [belches] Morty out of this!
Rick 1: You lost the right to have a say in these things when you refused to join [belches] the council. 
Beth: Wait, wh-wh-wh-what about Jerry?
Rick : Will you at least unfreeze my daughter’s idiot?
Scene Action: (Rick 1 unfreezes Jerry. Rick 2 and Rick 3 take Rick through the portal and all exit)
Jerry: -give you anything! I have a rare antique coin collection, just don’t hurt me! [pauses] Okay, maybe not antique, but it was a limited minting. They have little R2D2s instead of George Washingtons.
Beth: Our son’s been abducted!
Jerry: You hate me for buying those coins!
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext Citadel of Ricks]
Scene Action: [Trans. Int Citadel of Ricks. The three armed Ricks and C-137 Rick and Morty enter through a portal]
Morty : Geez, Rick! Wh-what is this place?
Rick : The citadel of Ricks. It’s the secret headquarters for the council of Ricks.
Morty : Council of Ricks? 
Rick : As you know, Morty, I’ve got a lotta enemies in the universe that consider my genius a threat. Galactic terrorists, a few sub-galactic dictators, most of the entire intergalactic government: wh-wherever you find people with heads up their asses someone wants a piece of your grandpa. And a lot of versions of me on different timelines had the same problem. So a few thousand versions of me had the INGENIOUS IDEA OF BANDING TOGETHER like a herd of cattle or a school of fish or those people who answer questions on yahoo answers.
Morty : Hey, what do you know? It’s a cowboy version of me!
Rick : Geez, you’re easy to impress. Yeah, most timelines have a Rick and most Ricks have a Morty. This place is a real who’s-who of who’s you and me.
Rick Salesman 1: Turn your boring old Morty into a hot fashion statement, with some Morty dazzlers!
Rick Salesman 2: Hey, check this out!
Scene Action: (Rick Salesman 2 holds up a Morty doll and presses a button in the middle)
Morty Doll: Show me the Morty!
Rick : Dumb.
Rick Salseman 3: ‘Scuse me, sir, is your Morty insured? You know, every year hundreds of Mortys are injured in-
Rick : Back off! Not my cup of tea, this place.
Scene Action: [Trans. Hallway leading to the Council]
Rick : I say the point of being a Rick is being a Rick. 
Rick 1: Save your anti-Rick speech for the council of Ricks, terror-Rick!
Rick : Hey, save your Rick rules for the [belches] sheep-Ricks, Rick-pig!
Rick 1: Fuck me, pal.
Rick : Fuck you? No no no no no, fuck me!
Scene Action: (They reach the end of the hallway and the door opens automatically, revealing the council of Ricks)
Rick Council 1: Bring up the holograms!
Scene Action: (A screen depicting several dead Ricks appears)
Rick Council 1: Twenty-seven Ricks brutally murdered in their own timelines. An unprecedented Rick-icidal epidemic. What say you, Earth Rick C-137?
Rick : You think I did this? Why am I the first Rick you pull in every time a Rick stubs his toe?
Rick Council 1: You [belches] have a history of non-cooperation with the council. 
Rick : Yeah, so does the scientist formerly known as Rick! Wh-wh-wh-why isn’t he here in handcuffs?
Rick Council 1: Because he’s dead too!
Rick crowd: No!
Rick Council 1: Who else would you have us question? You fit the profile. Of all the Ricks in the central finite curve, you’re the malcontent. The rogue.
Rick : I’m the Rick. And so were the rest of you before you formed this stupid alliance. You wanted to be safe from the government so you became a stupid government. That makes every Rick here less Rick than me. 
Rick crowd: (Can you believe this guy? This guy needs to get out of here, etc. Ad lib)
Rick : Yeah, murmur it up, d-bags. Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got pancakes back home with syrup on top of them. They’re about to hit that critical point of syrup absorption that turns the cakes into a gross paste. And I hate to get all Andy Rooney about it, but I think we all like fluffy discs of cake with syrup on top! And I think we also like to be accused of crimes when there’s evidence! So as they say in Canada, peace oot!
Rick Council 1: Evidence? Good idea. Scan his portal gun!
Scene Action: (Rick 1 reaches into C-137’s lab coat and retrieves his portal gun)
Rick : Oh, come on. Don’t look at another man’s portal gun history. We-we all go to weird places. 
Rick Council 1: Yes, but it appears you alone have been going to the exact timelines and locations in which the murders occured!
Scene Action: (A diagram appears on the screen, displaying C-137’s portal gun history. Entries for certain dimensions flash green before it finally settles on a select few which flash red)
Rick : What? That’s Rick-diculous. I’m obviously being set up! 
Rick Council 1: Earth Rick C-137! The council of Ricks sentences you to the machine of unspeakable doom, which swaps your conscious and unconscious minds, rendering your fantasies pointless while everything you know becomes impossible to grasp. Also every ten seconds it stabs your balls.
Rick : I’ve heard enough.
Scene Action: (C-137 elbows Rick 1 and tackles him into Rick 2, taking his gun and shooting through his own and then Morty’s handcuffs. The two run away)
Rick : Run, Morty!
Scene Action: (A Morty from the crowd starts to run too)
Crowd rick: Uh uh, not you!
Scene Action: [Trans. back to corridor. Rick and Morty (C-137) are running, and are being chased by Ricks]
Morty : Aaaaah!
Scene Action: (Rick shoots into the side walls with his portal gun. As the chasing Ricks pass, several of them get set on fire, attacked by insects, dragged into the portals by tentacles or hit by falling pumpkins)
Armed Rick 1: Nooo!
Armed Rick 2: Arrrrgh! Ahhhh!
Armed Rick 3: Aaaah!
Armed Ricks 4 and 5: Oof!
Scene Action: (The two reach the end of the corridor, which cuts off to a moveable ramp which is currently down and is blocked by a railing. They leap over. As they fall, Rick C-137 shoots a portal beneath them which they then fall through)
Scene Action: [Trans. Buttworld. Rick and Morty C-137 fall through a portal onto a large butt mountain. They bounce off and continue running]
Morty : Oh! Oooh!
Scene Action: (Rick C-137 shoots a portal in between two buttcheeks, which they run through, with the other Ricks in hot pursuit)
Scene Action: [Trans. Pizza dimension. A pizza sits on a couch dialing on a phone, while another is lying down on another couch)
Pizza 1: Yeah, I’d like to order one large person with extra people please.
Pizza 2: White people. No no no no no, black people. And hispanic on half.
Scene Action: (C-137 Rick and Morty run out of a portal and shoot another portal onto the opposite wall, then run through. The Ricks and Mortys chasing them follow)
Scene Action: [Trans. Greasy grandma world. The dimension is full of greasy grandmas. A banner says “Welcome to greasy grandma world. Population: A whole lot, sonny!”]
Scene Action: (C-137 Rick and Morty run through, avoiding the grandmas as much as possible. They shoot another portal in the wall and run through. The Ricks and Mortys chasing them follow)
Scene Action: [Trans. Phone dimension. A phone sits on a pizza dialing on a person, while another is lying down on another pizza]
Phone 1: Yes, I’d like to order one large sofa chair with extra chair please.
Phone 2: High chair. No no no no no, recliner! And wheelchair on half.
Scene Action: (C-137 Rick and Morty run out of a portal and shoot another portal onto the opposite wall, then run through. The Ricks and Mortys chasing them follow)
Scene Action: [Trans. Doopidoo dimension. Several doopidoo creatures stand around repeating the phrase “Doopidoo” over and over]
Scene Action: (Rick C-137 shoots several portals into the wall, and enters the last one. The Ricks and Mortys chasing them enter the dimension but don’t know which portal to go into)
Armed Rick 6: They could have gone into any one of these.
Armed Ricks: (Ugh, son of a-, aw geez, aw man, we lost him, etc. Ad lib)
Scene Action: [Trans. Chair dimension. A sofa sits on a person dialing on a pizza, while another is lying down on another person)
Sofa 1: Yeah, I’d like to order one large phone with extra phones please.
Sofa 2: Cellphone. No no no no no, rotary! And payphone on half.
Scene Action: (C-137 Rick and Morty run out of a portal)
Rick: That’ll keep ‘em [belches] busy for a while.
Morty: Those guys were wrong, right? You don’t- you wouldn’t kill yourself… y-yourselves?
Rick: ‘Course not, Morty! How could that profit me? Someone out there is killing Ricks, and the council ain’t gonna stop thinking it’s me until we clear our names.
Scene Action: (The two pass a homeless sofa, who’s initially drinking but stares at them as they pass and dumps out his bottle)
Rick: By finding the real Rick killer.
Morty: I’m scared, Rick! Maybe we should go home and stockpile weapons like that show Doomsday Preppers.
Rick: Not really my style, Morty. Besides, your home is most likely swarming with Ricks right now. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith living room. Jerry’s reading a newspaper, Summer’s on her phone, and a bunch of Ricks and Mortys are searching the place]
Rick 1: Alright, listen, Jerry. If Rick calls, this device is going to trace his location. You just gotta keep ‘em on the phone for thirty seconds or longer. 
Beth: Who wants lemonade?
Rick 1: Oh yeah! Mmm! Oh, delicious!
Rick 2: Beth, [belches] you’re a treasure. 
Rick 3: I have a Beth just like you in my [belches] reality, except you know what? She’s not as brilliant or [belches] attractive!
Beth: Aww, thank [belches] you!
All Ricks: Ohohoho! She did it! She did it!
Scene Action: (Phone rings. Rick 4 makes a signal to say they’re tracing the signal. Jerry picks it up)
Jerry: Uh, hello? 
Rick : Hey Jerry, it’s Rick.
Jerry: Rick! Heyy. Haha, what’s- what’s up?
Rick : So listen, the heat’s on and [belches] there’s nowhere left to turn so Morty and I are just going to fly my spaceship into a black hole.
Jerry: What?
Rick : Is that cool with you, dog?
Jerry: Rick, no! Mortyyyy!
Rick 4: I got it! The call’s coming from… inside the house!
All Ricks: [laughing] (Look at his face! I can’t believe our daughter married you, too easy, etc. Ad lib)
Scene Action: [Trans. Chair dimension. Rick and Morty are in a restaurant run by chairs]
Rick: The Ricks are probably gonna waste some time messing with Jerry. They won’t be able to help themselves. But as soon as they get bored they’ll be on to us.
Chair waiter: Phones á la clams, and phonesgetti with phoneballs. Anything else?
Rick: Yeah, more phonesticks please.
Phone waiter: Right away, sir.
Morty: You know Rick, when I first saw all those Ricks and Mortys, I thought ‘gee, that kinda devalues our bond.’ But then I realised that just means that our relationship must be pretty special to span over all those different timelines.
Rick: Yeah, it’s gotta be that way. You’re a camouflage.
Morty: Camouflage? Wh-wh-what are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: Ricks have a very distinct and traceable brainwave due to our genius. The best way to hide from an enemy’s radar is to stand near someone with complementary brainwaves that make ours invisible. See, wh-wh-when a Rick is with a Morty, the genius waves get cancelled out by the uh, [clears throat] Morty waves.
Morty: Um… because… our personalities are so different?
Rick: Oh, shit dog! My portal gun was hacked remotely Morty, obviously by the real killer to frame me. But I was able to trace the signal. Come on, let’s go!
Scene Action: (The two stand up. As they’re about to leave, two Ricks and a Morty enter the restaurant and address the waiter)
Rick : Uh-oh!
Rick 1: ‘Scuse me, we’ve tracked a pair of dangerous criminals to this exact location. They look exactly like us, so in order to avoid confusion I’m going to mark us each with a red X right now. That way if someone has a gun and we both tell you to shoot the other one because they’re the evil one, you’ll know who’s lying. 
Rick 2: Hey, check it out!
Scene Action: (Two person-chairs that look like Rick and Morty from behind are beside a table. When the two Ricks rush over to turn them around, it’s revealed that they’re not)
Rick 1: Dammit!
Scene Action: (They look out the window, to see C-137 flipping them off from in a police hovercraft. They rush outside, and the waiter follows)
Chair waiter: Hey, you didn’t pay your bill!
Rick 1: The red X! Red X!
Scene Action: [Trans. Green planet. Rick and Morty are flying in the police hovercraft, searching]
Rick: Hey, it’s a good thing that space outlet had labcoats and your favourite kind of shirt in stock, huh Morty?
Morty: Yeah, Rick. I-I heard you the first time. You don’t have to keep saying it over and over and over.
Rick: Man, this place is wayyy off the grid. This guy does not wanna be found.
Morty: Well, if he’s a Rick, doesn’t he just have to stand by a Morty to hide? I mean, isn’t that what Mortys are? Human cloaking devices?
Rick: Morty, you’re making a bigger deal out of this than it is. 
Scene Action: (In the distance a dome comes into view. Faint yelling can be heard)
Morty: Oh my god, Rick, look! There’s a bunch of people strapped all over that building!
Rick: Not people, Morty. Mortys.
Scene Action: (As they get closer, it’s revealed that the dome is covered top to bottom in naked Mortys, who are strapped to the surface and are being tortured with contraptions that stab their sides constantly. Constant Morty yelling can be heard)
Morty : Oh my god… wh-why would somebody do this? It’s horrible!
Rick: Well, one Morty’s enough to hide from the bureaucrats. But you g- you get a whole matrix of Mortys and put ‘em in agonising pain. That creates a pattern that can hide even from other Ricks, motherfucker. I fiddled with a [belches] concept like this once.
Scene Action: (They land. Morty stares at Rick)
Rick: On paper, Morty, on paper! I wouldn’t do this, it’s barbaric overkill. I mean, you could accomplish the same result with like five Mortys and a jumper cable. [pauses as Morty glares at him] Which I also wouldn’t do! I’m just saying, it’s bad craftsmanship.
Scene Action: [Trans. Smith living room. Ricks are playing cards while Mortys watch. Jerry’s on his laptop]
Beth: Coffee time!
All ricks: (Yeah! That’s what I like to hear! etc. Ad lib)
Scene Action: (The Ricks run into the kitchen, and the Mortys take the place of the Ricks on the cards table. Doofus Rick enters the house)
Jerry: Ugh.
Doofus Rick: Hi Jerry! 
Jerry: Leave me alone, I’m working!
Doofus Rick: Oh, you are? Wh-wh-what do you do?
Jerry: Ugh. I’m- I’m in between advertising jobs.
Doofus Rick: Advertising? Wow! So, people need help figuring out what to buy and then y-you help them?
Jerry: W-well, it’s a little more complicated than that…
Doofus Rick: Well, I mean, you do it, and you seem like a guy that really has it all together!
Jerry: [Looks around for hiding Ricks] Dude, are you… wh- you’re being a dick, right?
Doofus Rick: Oh gosh, wh- I hope not! I-I-I-I wouldn’t want to offend you in any way!
Jerry: You’re really a Rick?
Doofus Rick: Ohoho! Y-of course I am! Just as much as my Morty’s a Morty!
Scene Action: (Doofus Rick’s morty waves to Doofus Rick from the poker table)
Jerry: Hey, he looks a lot like Eric Stoltz from the movie ‘Mask.’ You know, the one with Cher in it?
Doofus Rick: That’s right, Jerry! He-he’s from a reality where everyone is Eric Stoltz mask people! He’s Eric Stoltz mask Morty! They assigned him to me because… I never had any kids of my own. But if I did, boy, I’d love ‘em  if they were as smart and as successful as you are, Jerry.
Scene Action: (Ricks return with coffee)
Rick 1: Hey, get a load of this! Jerry’s hanging out with doofus Rick. 
Rick 2: Haha, this is perfect. 
Doofus Rick: I’m not doofus Rick! I’m Rick J-19-Zeta-7! 
Rick 1: Oh, is that the timeline where everybody eats poop? Jerry, you know this guy eats poop, right?
Doofus Rick: Hey! I don’t eat poop! Y-you guys are always so mean to me!
Rick 1 and 2: [laughing]
Doofus Rick: I guess it’s only fair to tell you now, Jerry… I’m the worst Rick of them all.
Jerry: According to who? Other versions of you? If I’ve learned one thing, it’s that before you get anywhere in life, you gotta stop listening to yourself. 
Doofus Rick: Wow, you really are wise, Jerry. I-I guess that’s why you work in advertising!
Jerry: The fact that you feel that way makes you the best Rick of them all.
Scene Action: [Trans. Int dome. Rick and Morty are exploring corridors]
Morty: You don’t care about me at all! I’m no different than that jacket you’ve got on! Y-y-or-or your stupid portal gun! I’m just a tool! I-I’m just an object! 
Rick: Hey, it’s your choice to take it personally, Morty. Now for the love of god, be quiet! The point of this is to get the drop on the guy! 
Morty: You know what Rick, I’ll tell you something! I’m more than a human shield! 
Rick: Yeah, that’s right! You are! You’re a perfect impenetrable sheet of human armour, Morty! Because you’re as dumb as I am smart! Which is why when I say ‘shut up’ it’s really good advice.
Scene Action: (Morty tears up. A bunch of lobster-like aliens come out of the nearby corridors and surround them) 
Rick: Great, nice work, Morty. 
Scene Action: (Rick starts attacking and kicking the aliens. He kills the first wave, but more surround them quickly)
Rick: Urrgh.
Scene Action: (Evil Rick and Evil Morty emerge. Evil Rick is slow clapping)
Evil Rick: Ooh, look at you, C-137! You’re- aren’t you a tough customer? 
Rick: The slow clap? Really? Kinda played out, dude.
Evil Rick: Not in this dimension it isn’t. In fact, hah, I invented it and nobody else has ever even done it here before. 
Rick: Well lah-dee-dah. [slow claps]
Evil Rick: Hey, that’s mine!
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick and Morty have been apprehended and are being carried down the corridor by lobster aliens]
Rick: I don’t like the look of that Rick, Morty. We gotta escape.
Morty: I’m not gonna help you, Rick. Y-you’re a monster. 
Rick: Don’t be Rickdiculous, Morty.
Morty: W-will you stop saying that? It’s stupid.
Evil Rick: Take his Morty away.
Evil Morty: Come with me.
Morty: Yeah, gladly. Geez man, Ricks huh?
Scene Action: (The two leave to the left. The view changes to another, smaller corridor, which the two walk down)
Morty: Hey man, you seem to know how this place works. Is there any way we can… shut down that grid and rescue all those Mortys out there?
Evil Morty: It would be pointless. Mortys have no chance of defeating a Rick.
Scene Action: (He opens a door)
Evil Morty: In here.
Scene Action: (As Morty walks in, he sees it’s filled with a crowd of scared, shivering Mortys. As he tries to leave, Evil Morty closes the door behind him, locking him in)
Evil Rick: Ahh, isn’t it beautiful? 
Rick: Yeah, yeah, looks like payday at Neverland ranch in here. Zing!
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: That guy got it.
Evil Rick: Ah-ah Rick, quiet. You’re missing my symphony.
Scene Action: (Evil Rick presses a button, allowing the sounds of the Mortys in pain to come through. He conducts it for a bit)
Rick: Hey, I’ll take it over Mumford and Sons. Zip!
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: This guy is on it!
Evil Rick: He’s not laughing at your dumb jokes, Rick. That’s just a random noise it makes every ten seconds.
Lobster alien: Hehehehehehehehehe.
Rick: Awww.
Evil Rick: See, Rick, you’re not as clever as you think you are. I wanted you to find me. We’re not so [belch] different, you and I.
Scene Action: (Evil Rick activates a display showing all the Ricks from different timelines)
Rick: Yeah, duh!
Evil Rick: See this right here, Rick? I crunched the numbers, I created a spectrum of all the Ricks. I listed ‘em out from most evil to least evil. Here’s where I am. And look at right here’s where you are, Rick. This guy right here? Super weird.
Rick: I get it. So you want me to team up with you to take down the council of Ricks, right? Is that where you’re going with this? ‘Cause that’s where I’d be going.
Evil Rick: Please. I think I’m doing pretty good on my own. I’m simply going to download the contents of your brain, and then kill you.
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick’s garage. Doofus Rick is mixing chemicals and Jerry is watching]
Doofus Rick: Okay, if we add a little more titanium nitrate, and just a tad of chlorified tartrate: ovenless brownies! 
Scene Action: (Jerry takes a brownie, eats it and smiles)
Jerry: It’s incredible what a gifted mind can accomplish when priorities are in order!
Doofus Rick: Well, come on, I can’t take all the credit, Jerry. It was your idea. C’mere Jerry!
Scene Action: (Both hug and laugh)
Jerry: Hey, uh. C’mere, uh. I-I wanna show you something. 
Scene Action: (They exit the garage and Jerry pulls out a box, then opens it to reveal coins with R2D2s on them)
Jerry: Okay, look. Everybody makes fun of me for getting these, but… you’re a genius scientist, what do you think? There’s little R2D2s where the George Washingtons should be!
Doofus Rick: You know Jerry, I’m not gonna tell you that these will increase in value, or even hold their current value. The truth is… you bought ‘em ‘cause you like ‘em. They have value to you. That’s what matters.
Jerry: (tearing up) How long are you staying?
Doofus Rick: Until we find your Rick.
Jerry: (hugging doofus Rick) I found mine. I found mine.
Scene Action: [Trans. Morty prison. C-137 Morty is bashing at the door. He is approached by a group of Mortys wearing robes and facepaint]
Morty : Help! 
Religious Morty: There is no escape, my son. We will find our peace in the next world.
Scene Action: (Religious Morty offers C-137 a pamphlet titled “The Good Morty”)
Morty : So what? Y-y-y-y-you’re just going to give up? 
Religious Morty: We’re giving in to the power of the One True Morty. One day he will return!
All religious Mortys: Praise the One True Morty!
Scene Action: (Morty opens “The Good Morty” to the first page, then scoffs and throws it away)
Morty : Alright Mortys, listen up! My name is Morty Smith, from Earth dimension C-137! I know you’re scared, because I’m scared, but that’s no reason to accept our fate. We’re Mortys! We’re not defined by our relationships to Rick! Our destiny is our own!
Morty 1: This sounds like something the One True Morty might say. I’m sick of being a human shield! I-I-I-I wanna be a gardener!
Morty 2: I wanna write really crazy, intense action novels!
Hammer Morty: I’m more than just a hammer!
Religious Morty: He is the one true Morty! The one true Morty!
All Mortys: Hooray!
Scene Action: (The door opens, and a lobster alien walks in)
Lobster alien: Hey, keep it down!
All Mortys: Raaaaugh!
Scene Action: (The Mortys rush the door, breaking free and charging down the corridor)
Scene Action: [Trans. Evil Rick’s lab. Evil Rick is going through Rick’s memories on a screen]
Evil Rick: You’ve lived quite a life, Rick. It’s a real shame you’re not gonna be around to see it through.
Scene Action: (The memories change theme to feature Morty in each one. Rick tears up)
Evil Rick: You’re crying? Over a Morty? 
Rick: No, I’m just allergic to dipshits.
Evil Rick: Ugh, pathetic. We both know that if there’s any truth in the universe, it’s that Ricks don’t care about Mortys.
Scene Action: (The Mortys break through the door and rush at Evil Rick, killing the lobster aliens, surrounding him and tearing into him)
Evil Rick: Do your worst, you little bastards! Kill me! Do it! Do it!
Scene Action: (Evil Rick dies. Morty C-137 appears and approaches Rick)
Rick: Morty! Get me out of this! Come on!
Morty : You’re lucky I’m not a Rick.
Scene Action: (Morty C-137 unbuckles Rick from the examination table)
Rick: Point taken, but this is [belches] no time for arcs. 
Scene Action: (He presses a button, disengaging the Morty shield. Mortys are released and pour down off the dome. Rick grabs a phone and rings home)
Rick 1: Yeah, hello?
Rick : Hey, what do me and O.J. not have in common? 
Rick 1: Huh? Wh-who is this?
Rick : I found the real killer, biitch! Get over here!
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerry and doofus Rick are playing with legos. Rick 1 opens the door]
Rick 1: Yo ding-dong! We’re done here. Time to go. 
Doofus Rick: Well Jerry, I [belches] guess this means goodbye. 
Jerry: W-w-well, does it have to? Heh, you, you look just like Rick. We could maybe… you know… get rid of him? I’m not saying kill him, necessarily, I-I’m also not saying necessarily not kill him, but-
Doofus Rick: Jerry. W-we both know it wouldn’t work. It’s time to go back to our lives. I love you, Jerry. I love ya.
Scene Action: (Doofus Rick hugs Jerry and leaves. Jerry makes as if to follow him, then stops and punches a wall. The lego castle they built falls apart)
Scene Action: [Trans. Evil Rick’s lab. The Mortys are still fighting. Ricks from the citadel move in and stop each Morty, pulling them off Evil Rick’s corpse and bringing them back to the citadel]
Morty : Wh-wh-what’s gonna happen to all these Mortys?
Council Rick 1: They’ll go back to their families, attend school regularly, play video games, date girls… poor little Rickless bastards.
Scene Action: [Trans. Citadel of Ricks. The council has gathered around C-137 Rick and Morty]
Council Rick 1: Earth Rick C-137, the council apologises for its false accusation. And in the way of reparations for our terrible mistake, we would like to compensate you with this voucher for a free replacement Morty, in the event that [belches] your current [belches] Morty should-
Rick: Uh, guys? Not a good time. Come on, Morty, let’s hit it.
Scene Action: (Before they leave, Rick takes the voucher anyway)
Scene Action: [Trans. Citadel outside. Rick and Morty are walking away from the council]
Morty: Is it time for arcs yet, Rick? I did a pretty great job back there for a human cloaking device. Saved your ass.
Rick: Alright, Morty, don’t break an arm jerking yourself off.
Morty: Man, I can’t believe you, Rick! That right there! Tha-that was a great opportunity to show a little humanity. You know? To connect with me a little?
Rick: Hey Morty, you want connection? Go be part of some stupid club like all those dumb Ricks. You know, maybe I don’t connect because I’m the Rickest Rick there is. And you know, it would [belch] go without saying that the Rickest Rick… would have the Mortyest Morty.
Morty: It would go without saying, huh?
Rick: Yeah, it would. Did you hear me say it?
Morty: Nah… (to himself) The Mortyest Morty…
Rick: Just don’t get too big for your loafers, Buster Brown. A cocky Morty could lead to some big problems. Could be a real bad thing for everybody.
Morty: Oh yeah, how’s that?
Rick: I-I-I’ll explain when you’re older.
Scene Action: [Trans. Evil Rick’s lab. Evil Rick is lying in a pool of blood being inspected by Ricks. For the Damaged Coda by Blonde Redhead starts playing in the background]
Rick 1: What a mess…
Rick 2: Pride cometh before the fall. I guess he got what he deserved.
Rick 1: What is that?
Scene Action: (Rick 1 turns Evil Rick’s head over to reveal wires)
Rick 2: Hand me the laser defibrillator. 
Doofus Rick: Hey guys! Uh, c-can I help?
Rick 2: No! Go clean the toilets! Maybe you’ll make friends with some turds!
Rick 1: You make us ashamed to be ourselves!
Scene Action: (Rick 2 removes the top of Evil Rick’s head to reveal electronics woven into his brain. They pull out a chip)
Rick 1: My god! I’ve seen this technology before! This Rick was being controlled remotely, puppeteered by somebody else. This is the receiver!
Rick 2: Yeah, but where’s the transmitter?
Scene Action: [Trans. Citadel of Ricks. Mortys are being loaded into spaceships to be delivered to their respective dimensions]
Scene Action: (Evil Morty follows them, and removes his eyepatch, revealing the transmitter. He crushes it underfoot and hides the wires, then follows the rest of the Mortys)
Scene Action: [Credits play]
Scene Action: [After credits scene: Jerry is sitting in Rick’s bedroom, trying not to cry. Rick enters]
Rick: Wubbalubbadubdub! Oh. Hey Jerry. Wh-wh-what are you doing in my room, buddy?
Jerry: Nothing! I was just, um, checking the smoke detectors.
Rick: Alright. Okay, get out. 
Scene Action: (Jerry leaves and goes down to the dining room. He looks outside the window and sees doofus Rick standing in the rain and smiles. Rick appears beside Jerry)
Rick: What’s that dipshit doing out there? Are you friends with him? You know he eats his own shit, right? Oh my god, this is rich! I’ve got like [belches] ten Ricks to call right now!
Scene Action: [Episode ends]
Summer: Bye, mom! Bye, dad!
Morty: Drive carefully!
Rick: Have fun, you two,
Beth: Yes, we will have as much fun as possible on our... Titanic -themed getaway,
Jerry: Let's lose the 'tude, please, It's supposed to be romantic,
Beth: Speaking of disasters, dad, we are leaving you in charge, here,
Rick: I know, c-can we wrap this up? Morty and I have some synthetic laser eels oxidizing in the garage,
Beth: Hey, don't blow me off, I am drawing a line, okay? Any damage to this house or these children when we get back, and... n-no more adventures with Morty,
Morty: Aw, geez, Rick, If my mom's the one who's saying it, then you know it's pretty serious this time,
Both: That's right,
Jerry: Wait, What?
Rick: Listen, you have my word as a caregiver, everything's gonna be fine, And if not, like you say, no more adventures or whatever, It's like that old song "Blomp blomp-a noop noop a-noop noop noop," Y-you guys know that song? From Tiny Rogerts? You never heard of it? You know, the black effeminate guy from the '50s? No-nobody? A-all right, whatever, Look, who cares? Just go on your stupid trip,
Jerry: Not one thing out of place,
Scene Action: [ Engine turns over ]
Jerry: Not a single thing,
Scene Action: [ Bubbling, crackling ]
Summer: Well, we're past the point of no return, I'm going to have a party, I found Jello, Can you sneak your mom's vodka? Yes, she does, I saw it in your laundry room, Listen, you can't both be in denial about it, Okay, bye,
Morty: Summer, you can't throw a party! Remember what mom said?
Summer: Yeah, if anything gets messed up, you and Grandpa Rick get punished, I'm only a human being, Morty,
Morty: Rick, tell Summer she can't have a party!
Rick: Uh, Summer, you can't have a party,
Summer: [ Scoffs ]
Rick: Because I'm having a party, b-i-i-i-itch!
Morty: Oh, what?! Rick, you can't!
Summer: What do you mean you're having a party? Are some glip glops from the third dimension going to come over and play cards or something?
Rick: "Glip glop?" You're lucky a traflorkian doesn't hear you say that,
Summer: Is that like their n-word?
Rick: It's like the n-word and the c-word had a baby and it was raised by all the bad words for jews,
Morty: Listen, I think the three of us could just, you know, have a nice time, like just hanging out, and, you know, doing a little bonding and --
Summer: Screw that, This is my chance to gain some footing with the cool kids,
Rick: That's why you party? Boy, you really are 17,
Summer: Why do you party?
Rick: To get wr-wriggedy wriggedy wrecked, son!
Summer: Just keep your sci-fi friends away from my awesome ones,
Rick: Yeah, and you keep your awesome friends away from my canapes,
Captain: After dinner, Titanic 2 will attach to the rail system near our replica iceberg, and the hydraulics encased in these tubes will execute a controlled sink into the icy depths,
Jerry: A rail system seems archaic for an attraction this impressive, Are you sure the ship will sink?
Captain: I can assure you the ship will sink, as it has a thousand times before, It is un-unsinkable, Ooh!
Jerry: Look, it's the line for the bow!
Beth: Jerry, I'd love to just kick back with a margarita and read, Do you mind if I skip the whole "King of the world" bit?
Jerry: Well, it's not the "King of the world" bit, That's Jack and Fabrizio, This is where Rose says, "I'm flying, Jack!" but whatever, I can be the only one to do it alone,
Beth: Well, what about her? Excuse me, ma'am, Would you like to take my place in line?
Lucy: I, uh -- I could get into trouble,
Beth: We won't tell,
Jerry: So... you're a Titanic fanatic? Oh, yes,
Lucy: I've worked here since it opened, but I've never been able to participate,
Jerry: Happy to help... Rose,
Scene Action: [ Giggles ]
Tammy: I love watching bukkake, I mean, like, I don't know if I personally would ever do it,,,
Summer: Brad! Hey! Brad: Yo,
Tammy: Brad is here! Quick, make my hair look drunk,
Brad: Check it out, Tammy's already drunk, Cool,
Birdperson: The beacon was activated, Who is in danger?
Summer: Ugh! Grandpa!
Rick: Birdperson!
Birdperson: I am pleased there is no emergency,
Rick: Oh, there's an emergency, all right, A [bleep] emergency! When's the last time you got laid, 'pers?
Birdperson: It has been a... challenging mating season for Birdperson,
Rick: Then it's time to get your beak wet tonight, playah, Go have some fun out there birdp-- bird-- birdperson,
Morty: Oh, man, how many people did you invite, Rick?
Rick: Uh... people? Mm, six, Yo! What up, my glip glops?!
Morty: Oh, man!
Scene Action: [ Electronic music plays ] [ Breathing heavily ]
Oh! Morty: Y-y-you know there's a garbage, right? Hey, uh, what the hell?! Alien: Ooh, That's why you never invite a Floopy Doop and a Shmoopy Doop to the same party,
Scene Action: [ Bed springs squeaking ]
Morty: Oh, oh, g-- oh, that's disgusting! You guys are in my parents' bed!
Alien: Oh, Sorry, I'm not feeling too well, I just needed to lie down for a bit,
Morty: Oh, Okay, S-s-sorry,
Scene Action: [ Groans ]
Morty: Oh, my god! Are you kidding me?!
Gearhead: The thing people don't realize about the gear wars is that it was never really about the gears at all,
Rick: Uh-huh, Yeah, No, no, to-totally,
Morty: Rick, you got to stop --
Rick: Morty! Have you met Gearhead?
Morty: Hey, how's --
Rick: Morty here, he -- he would love to hear all about the gear wars,
Gearhead: How familiar are you with the gear wars, exactly? Morty: Uh... not at all,
Gearhead: Oh, boy, I envy you, Okay, it was about 754 years ago,,,
Rick: Oh, hey, Morty! H-have you -- have you met my buddy Scropon?
Morty: Not again, Rick, That last guy droned on for 20 minutes, you know? And meanwhile, the whole house is being destroyed!
Rick: Whoa, Morty, this guy's entire planet was destroyed, Have a little perspective,
Squanchy: Hey, Rick, Squanchy party, bro!
Rick: Aw! Squanchy!
Squanchy: Is there a good place for me squanch around here?
Rick: Squanchy, you can squanch wherever you want, man, Mi casa es su casa, dawg!
Squanchy: All right! I like your squanch!
Morty: Uh, Rick, what exactly is "Squanching"?
Rick: Morty, listen -- we've had a lot of really cool adventures over the last year, but it's time to relax,
Morty: Yeah, if I relax now, there might not even be any more adventures!
Rick: Jesus, Morty, you're bumming me out, Can't we just pretend like everything's fine for a few hours, enjoy ourselves, and then worry about all this later?
Morty: Yeah, that's easy for you to say, Rick, You know, you like not caring about stuff, You know, wh-wh-what's in this for me?
Scene Action: [ Soft music plays ] [ indistinct conversations ]
Morty: Jessica,
Rick: Knock it off, Slow Mobius!
Slow Mobius: Ha ha! Sorry, dude! I'm just trying to show off my powers, bro!
Morty: I can't believe she's here,
Rick: Well, what are you doing standing here, Morty? Go, Talk to her, Tonight, the only adventure you're on is your cusping manhood,
Scene Action: [ Both laugh ]
Jerry: Oh, Rose,
Lucy: Whee!
Jerry: Is that what I think it is?
Lucy: Yes, every couple gets to re-create Jack's drowning at the end of the movie, It's so romantic,
Jerry: I can't wait to do that with Beth,
Lucy: I don't know, Jerry, With all due respect, it seems like your wife may not be that interested,
Jerry: Look!
Captain: Iceberg, right ahead! The buffet is now closed, Iceberg, right ahead! The buffet is now closed,
Sailor: Uh, sir? There's not a problem,
Captain: What do you mean there's not a problem?
Sailor: The guidance system isn't putting us on a direct collision course, This ship is about to completely miss the giant iceberg!
Captain: Well, do something! Steer into it!
Sailor: I'm trying!
Captain: It's too late, Ladies and gentlemen... don't brace yourselves,
Scene Action: [ All gasping ] 
Jerry: No! No! What happened?!
Lucy: Their rail system must have failed,
Crowd: Oh, my god! We're not gonna sink!
Party Goer: Totally gonna get laid tonight,
Tammy: I like your feathers,
Birdperson: They are designed to attract the attention of the female,
Tammy: It's working,
Birdperson: Tammy, I should let you know I just got out of a highly intense soul bond with my previous spirit mate,
Tammy: I'm not looking to get into a soul bond, I'm just looking for...
Birdperson: I believe Birdperson can arrange that,
Nancy: Hey, Summer, haven't seen you at flute practice in a while,
Cool Girl: Summer, don't tell me you're friends with her,
Summer: Are you kidding me? I don't even know what she's doing here,
Rick: Whoa, Not cool, Summer, This is a party, Everybody should be welcome,
Scene Action: [ Crashes ]
Rick: Oh, great, Who invited Abradolph Lincoler?
Summer: I thought everyone was welcome,
Rick: It's not the same, Summer, Lincoler is a crazed maniac -- just a misguided effort of mine to create a morally neutral superleader by combining the DNA of Adolf Hitler and Abraham Lincoln, Turns out it just adds up to a lame, weird loser,
Lincoler: Rick, you brought me into this world, a suffering abomination tortured by the duality of its being, But I shall finally know peace when I watch the life drain from your wretched body!
Brad: Whoa, What's up, man?
Lincoler: I have no quarrel with you, boy,
Brad: "Boy"? What's that supposed to mean?
Lincoler: It's just -- l-look, I-I don't know how you thought I meant it, but...
Rick: Don't look at me, dude,
Lincoler: Look, I'm half-Abraham Lincoln, so --
Brad: So I should get on my knees and kiss your ass?!
Lincoler: Well, no, but... you know?
Brad: What do I know? That the Third Reich will reign for a thousand years?
Jessica: Leave him alone, Brad,
Brad: Stay out of this, Jessica!
Rick: Kick his ass, Brad! Kick his ass!
All: Kick his ass! Kick his ass!
Jessica: Brad!
Scene Action: [ Grunts ]
Morty: Rick!
Rick: I just did you a favor, Morty,
Morty: Sorry about all that, Rick has some really strange friends,
Jessica: Ugh! Brad is such a jerk, He's always trying to prove what a man he is, I just want to find somebody nice and sweet,
Morty: Jessica, can I show you something?
Jessica: Wow! Look at all this stuff,
Morty: yeah, This is me and my grandpa Rick's sci-fi workshop, Check this out,
Scene Action: [ Projector beeping ]
Jessica: It's beautiful,
Morty: You know, Jessica, there's something I've always wanted to tell you,
Jessica: What's that, Morty?
Morty: I think that you're the most --
Jessica: No, that -- those weird sounds coming from the closet over there,
Scene Action: [ Closet rattling ]
Morty: Oh, my god!
Squanchy: Aah! Hey, I'm squanching in here!
Morty: Oh, my god! Oh, that is so disgusting! Ow! Oh! Oh, crap!
Scene Action: [ Device warbling ] [ Warbling ] [ All screaming ]
Rick: Huh, Big star in the sky, [ Inhales sharply ] Oxygen-rich atmosphere, Giant testicle monsters, We'll be fine! Let's party!
Scene Action: [ All cheering ] ♪ Just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ ♪ Just shake that ass,,, ♪
Summer: I swear to God Morty, if it weren't for the fact that everyone's still having a blast in there, I would be so furious with you right now,
Rick: Oh, man, Y-you hear that, Morty? You really lucked out with Summer o-on that one,
Morty: How are you guys not freaking out right now?! T-the whole house is sitting in another dimension! I-I mean, w-what the hell are we supposed to do?! M-m-mom and dad are gonna kill us! I'm losing it here, Rick!
Rick: Relax, Morty, relax! It's gonna be fine, All we have to do is go out and find us some kalaxian crystals,
Scene Action: [ Detector beeping ]
Rick: Oh, shit, mother[bleep] kalaxian crystals, Morty, just a few miles south of here,
Morty: Okay, Let's go, then, W-w-we got to go get those crystals right now, Rick,
Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, Morty, morty, I-I can't go with you, I got to hang back and make sure everything stays cool here, you know? I mean, who knows what -- what if somebody breaks something?
Summer: Yeah, Me too, I should stay,
Lincoler: You guys have any aspirin?
Rick: Oh, hey, Morty, this is perfect! You can take Lincoler with you,
Lincoler: Hey, man, I'm not going anywhere, I'm injured,
Rick: Shut up, Lincoler, It's the least you can do for wrecking the living room,
Summer: Yeah! And, Nancy, you should go, too,
Nancy: What? Why -- why me?
Summer: Because, uh, you're -- you're so good at playing the flute,
Captain: Sorry for the inconvenience, folks, We should resume sinking shortly, In the meantime, please, stay on the ship and enjoy a complimentary plate of James Cameronion rings,
Jerry: Great, Not only is the ship not sinking, but now the fourth wall has been broken,
Beth: [ Sighs ] I am gonna go back to the room to finish my book, You should find that Lucy woman,
Jerry: But -- but --
Lucy: [ clears throat ] You see, Jerry? May I show you something? Had everything gone as planned, this entire area would be underwater,
Jerry: [ Sighs ] I would have liked to see it, This trip has been a "Titanic" failure, Get it?
Lucy: Ooh! Draw me, Jerry,
Jerry: Oh, boy, Lucy, wow, Uh, this isn't what I had in mind,
Lucy: But it's the perfect moment, We've been dreaming about this for 16 years,
Jerry: Um, not like this, Not -- not with you,
Lucy: You are gonna draw me,
Jerry: Aah!
Lucy: Then you're going to [bleep] me in that car over there,
Lincoler: It's weird, 'cause I definitely think that all men are created equal, But, at the same time --
Morty: Okay! Um, the crystals should be really close,
Nancy: There they are!
Scene Action: [ Detector beeps ]
Lincoler: Wait, Something's not right,
Scene Action: [ Creature growls ] [ Screams ] [ Creature roars ]
Lincoler: Get the crystals! I'll handle the beast! Prepare to be emancipated from your own inferior genes!
Scene Action: [ Grunting ]
Nancy: Summer's gonna like me again,
Scene Action: [ Creature growling ] [ Grunts ] [ Grunts ]
Morty: Lincoler, come on! Let's get out of here!
Lincoler: Mein journey is over, Morty, [ Groaning ] I have something important to tell you,
Gearhead: ♪ And the gears, they turned for a thousand years ♪ ♪ Until the dark day that they stopped ♪
Morty: Rick, I got them! I got the crystals!
Rick: All right! You did it, Morty,
Morty: Rick, wait! There's something you need to know, I couldn't have done it without Lincoler, He said that he was really sorry and that he loves you like a father, He only wanted you to accept him, and he hopes that his final act would redeem him in your eyes, He sacrificed himself to save all of us, Rick, He died,
Rick: Well, at least he didn't die in vain, He got these crystals, [ Sniffs ] And these babies just saved this lame-ass party! Wubba, lubba, dub, dub! Play something, S-somebody, play something,
Morty: Wait a minute, What?
Scene Action: [ Hip-hop music plays ]
Rick: ♪ Put your right foot forward ♪ ♪ And your left foot back ♪ ♪ Then slide around like on a nordictrack ♪ ♪ Move to the left ♪ ♪ Step to the right ♪ ♪ Wiggle your elbows, and look up into the light ♪ ♪ It's the, it's the ♪ ♪ It's the Rick dance ♪ ♪ It's the, it's the ♪ ♪ It's the Rick dance ♪
Rick: Slow Mobius, hit me with the clock beam! [ Warbling ] ♪ It's the, it's the ♪ ♪ It's the Rick dance ♪
Rick: That's the Rick dance! All right! Whoa, man!
Morty: What the hell was that?! I thought those crystals were supposed to help us get home or something!
Rick: What? No, no, no, I can get us home whenever I want to, But, listen, speaking of those crystals, can I get the rest of them? I'm starting to come down, Morty, Crystal kalaxian is a really strong, but fleeting high,
Scene Action: [ Door slides open ]
Morty: [ Grunts ] That's what I think of your crystals, Rick!
Rick: Oh, Morty, you idiot! Does anybody else have any more k-lax? B-birdperson? Uh, squanchy? Don't squaunch at me,
Morty: All right, everybody, party is officially over! Rick, take us home now,
Rick: All right, all right, fine, Morty, you party pooper buzzkill! Boo, boo! Morty sucks!
Crowd: Boo! You suck, whatever your name is,
Rick: Boo! Morty, you're the worst, Morty,
Tammy: Boo!
Gearhead: But these gears just started turnin',
Lucy: Almost finished, Jerry?
Jerry: Uh, almost, I haven't quite captured your beautiful eyes,
Lucy: I'm sure it's good enough, Move! Every weekend, Jacks and Roses have the Titanic experience in this car, and I have to mop it up, The floor drops out to make it easier, But now it's my turn, We're going to get it nice and steamy in there, and I'm going to slam my hand on the steam and leave a nice handprint, and then you're going to love inside of me, No mess, No clean, [ Grunts ]
Jerry: Beth!
Beth: Bet you're glad I think kindles are dumb now, I can't help but feel a little guilty, I didn't peg Lucy for a rapist,
Jerry: What does a rapist look like exactly, Beth? Is it a Slavic man wearing a denim jacket with a patchy beard and the scent of cheap champagne wafting over his blister-pocked lips?
Beth: What? Well, at least you got all this free stuff, Should be enough to satisfy your Titanic Jones for a while,
Jerry: [ Grunts ] I'm not going to fit, Beth, listen to me, You're going to get out of here, You're gonna go on, and --
Beth: Jerry, just leave the door,
Jerry: It's not a door, Beth, It's debris,
Beth: I don't care, Just leave it,
Jerry: Yeah, Okay,
Lucy: [ Laughs evilly ] "Cape Fear"! "Cape Fear"! I'm -- I'm doing -- I'm -- I'm going to do like from "Cape Fear," [ Grunts, groans ] [ Moaning, screaming ]
Squanchy: Hey, Squanchers! The party's squanching on at my place!
Scene Action: [ All cheering ]
Summer: Cool, I'm coming, too,
Squanchy: Uh, no, You're not Squanchy enough for a squanchy party,
Summer: What? 
Scene Action: Nancy told us what a bitch you are,
Summer: Guys, seriously, Nancy?
Nancy: Summer, you're a bad person, All you care about is having popular people like you, That's not what Abradolph Lincoler stood for, Well, i-it was hard to pin down what he stood for, but it's certainly not what he died for,
Summer: Next time I party, I'm just gonna focus on getting totally wrecked, You're so wise,
Rick: [ Mumbles ]
Birdperson: May I assist you with that?
Morty: Uh, sure, yeah, Thanks,
Birdperson: Morty, do you know what "Wubba lubba dub dub" means?
Morty: Uh, that's just Rick's stupid nonsense catchphrase,
Birdperson: It's not nonsense at all, In my people's tongue, it means, "I am in great pain, Please help me,"
Morty: Well, I got news for you, He's saying it ironically,
Birdperson: No, Morty, Your grandfather is, indeed, in very deep pain, That is why he must numb himself,
Morty: Come on, um...
Birdperson: Birdperson,
Morty: Come on, Birdperson, Rick's not that complicated, He's just a huge asshole,
Birdperson: Then why do you care so much if you are no longer allowed to continue on your adventures together? It appears fate has presented you with an opportunity to free yourself of Rick forever,
Morty: You know what? You're right, I shouldn't even care, This is probably the best thing that could have happened to me, I'm sick of having adventures with Rick,
Birdperson: My people have another saying -- "Gubba nub nub doo rah kah," It means, "Whatever lets you sleep at night,"
Scene Action: [ Cellphone beeps ]
Summer: Guys, mom and dad are, like, right around the corner,
Birdperson: This is your moment, Morty, Choose wisely, Tammy! [ Grunts ] Caw!
Summer: Wow, We are so screwed,
Morty: Rick, wake up,
Rick: Huh? What? Wait? What? What? Stop,
Morty: Rick, you got to do something quick, My parents are home,
Rick: Uh, all -- all right, All right, Hold -- hold on, [ Gulping ] Ahh! So good,
Morty: Oh, my God, They're walking up the driveway,
Rick: Bring me the thing,
Morty: What -- what thing?
Rick: The thing, The thing, The -- the -- it's got, like, buttons on it and lights on it, It -- it -- it beeps,
Morty: Rick! That describes everything in your garage!
Summer: Do you mean this?
Rick: Summer for -- for the win, All right, that should do it,
Morty: Whoa! What did you do?
Rick: Uh, s-see for yourself,
Summer: Whoa!
Rick: Yeah, e-everything's frozen in time, Yeah, and Slow Mobius thinks he's all that,
Morty: For how long?
Rick: I don't know, How long do you guys want? A week? A month?
Summer: Can we start cleaning the house and see how we feel?
Scene Action: [ Mid-tempo rock music plays ] [ Epic music plays ]
Rick: Worst movie ever,
Summer: Dumb,
Morty: Ooh, boy, what a waste of time, [ Laughter ] Get it? You know, 'cause it's frozen,
Summer: This has been so much fun,
Morty: Hey, Rick, You know, this whole time, I haven't once heard you say that "wubba lubba dub dub" thing that you usually say,
Rick: Don't need to, I have a new catchphrase,
Morty: Oh, yeah? What -- what's that, Rick?
Rick: I love my grandkids,
Both: Aww,
Rick: Psych! Just kidding -- my new catchphrase is, "I don't give a [bleep]" ♪ Just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ ♪ Just shake that ass, bitch, and let me see whatcha got ♪ Roll credits! ♪ Just shake that a-- ♪ Roll the credits! Go! ♪ Just shake that ass ♪ That's the end of season one! That's the end, mother[bleep] "I don't give a [bleep]" is my new catchphrase! [bleep] you! That's season one! Boom! Season one up in your face, mother[bleep] Yeah!
Lincoler: Revenge, What?!
Party Guy: Party! Whoo, baby!
Lincoler: Please, stop!
Party Guy: Hey, brah!
Lincoler: I don't understand, Are you enjoying this? Do you like this?
Party Guy: Yeah, you know it, dawg! Whoo, baby! 
Scene Action:  [Open aerial view/zoom on the Smith home] 
Scene Action: (Morty, Rick, and Jerry) 
Scene Action: (Everything is frozen besides Morty, Rick and Summer. Morty is vacuuming Jerry with a hand vac.) 
Scene Action: (Enter: Summer)
Summer: Hurry up Morty, Grampa's about to unfreeze time. You know you really should be cleaning from top to bottom. 
Morty: I know how to vacuum Mom and Dad, Summer, I've been doing it for six months! 
Summer: Then you've been doing it wrong for six months. Oh, my God, is that mildew? 
Morty: It's not my fault we froze time on a humid day! 
Summer: You have dropped so many balls, man. Do you ever get scared Grampa Rick might make me his new sidekick? 
Morty: What? What kind of monster are you? 
Summer: A competent one. 
Rick: Who cares about the *belch* thing you guys are talking about? The whole point of freezing time is to stop giving a fuck. Put a shirt on your dumb dad and let's get this dumb universe rolling. Let's do this thing. 
Scene Action: (Morty puts shirt on Jerry backwards.) 
Rick: Alright, listen, you two, we froze time for a pretty long time, so when I unfreeze it, the world's time is gonna be fine, but our time's gonna need a little time to, you know, stabilize. 
Morty: Our time is gonna be unstable? What does that even mean? 
Rick: It means relax and stop being a pussy, Morty. I thought you learned that by now. It also means don't touch your parents or we could shatter into countless theoretical shards. 
Morty: Wait a minute, what? 
Rick: And away we go! 
Scene Action: (Rick unfreezes time.) 
Scene Action: (Mr. Benson falls off the roof.) 
Morty: Uh, did we ever put that mattress under Mr. Benson? 
Rick: Shhh, Morty! 
Scene Action: (Jerry opens the door angrily) 
Jerry: ...A THING OR TWO ABOUT... wait, what? Was the house...? When we pulled up I could have sworn the house was completely trashed. 
Rick: Negative visualization, Jerry. It explains a lot about where you're at. Hi, sweety. 
Beth: Hi, dad. 
Scene Action: (Summer and Morty recoil from Beth as she approaches to hug Rick) 
Beth: Summer, Morty, are you okay? 
Morty: W-We just missed you a lot. 
Summer: Yeah, we missed you so much. Too much to hug you though. 
Scene Action: (Rick motions Summer and Morty behind him.) 
Rick: Yeah it would literally destroy them. Now listen, why do—why do—why—why don't you guys go get a free sunday ice cream, (Rick puts a rubber band around a rolled up wad of cash) go out there and get some ice creams. Here's five hundred dollars cash in unmarked moneys. I'm just gonna put it on the floor and uh, kick it on over to ya. You guys go nuts. 
Jerry: This better not be a bribe. If I find a single thing out of place in this house, my love of ice cream won't save you. I'll get my jacket. 
Beth: Sweety, is your shirt on backwards? 
Scene Action: <Simultaneously---
Summer: *Gasp*  
Morty: Oh! 
Rick: Uh oh. 
Scene Action: --------------> 
Jerry: Yeah, I like it this way. I'm not stupid. 
Scene Action: <Simultaneously--- 
Morty: Phew... 
Summer: *Exhales* 
Scene Action: --------------> 
Rick: Man that guy is the Red Grin Grumble to pretending he knows what's going on. (Morty and Summer laugh) Oh you agree, huh? (Summer: Funny) You like that Red Grin Grumble reference? (Summer: Yeah.) Well guess what? I made him up. You really are your father's children. Think for yourselves, don't be sheep. 
Scene Action: [Intro sequence] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Outside Morty's house] 
Scene Action: (Mr. Benson is being loaded into an ambulance.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Morty's house] 
Summer: God, I feel terrible. 
Rick: Yup, it really makes you appreciate how fickle the universe can be. (Rick opens refrigerator) [Trans. Inside refrigerator] One minute you're falling off a roof for six months, the next minute, bam! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Morty's house]
Morty: Uh, just to be clear, it was Summer's job to put the mattress under- 
Summer: (interrupting) Uh, what? It was your job, Morty. (Summer pokes Morty.) 
Morty: Nuh uh! 
Summer: Yeah huh! 
Rick: Actually, sorry Summer, I gotta back the M bomb on this one. I remember the conversation. We told Morty to replace all the bank's money with cookies, your job was to put the mattress under Mr. Benson. 
Morty: Boom! In your face Summer! You really dropped the ball, man. 
Summer: Shut up Morty, you vindictive little turd! 
Morty: You shut up you big... female asshole! 
Scene Action: (Alternate selves first appear) 
Alternate Morty: Hey, don't shove me! 
Summer: I didn't! 
Morty: You didn't what? 
Alternate Summer: What's your problem? 
Morty: What's yours? 
Alternate Summer: Shut up! 
Morty: You shut up! 
Rick: Whoa whoa wh-what the hell hell hell hell hell? 
Scene Action: (Time splits into two - alternate timelines will be ordered from top to bottom, left to right.) 
All Ricks: Oh God, oh no, what did you guys just do? 
Summer 1: What do you mean? 
Summer 2: What could we do? 
All Summers: Wait, what am I saying? 
Rick: *belch* Were either of you guys uncertain about anything just now? 
All Mortys: Oh man... I don't feel good. 
Morty 1: Am I me? I think so. 
Morty 2: A-am I talking right now? 
All Mortys: Wait, who said that? 
All Ricks: Alright both of you, just don't move, don't speak, don't think. I have to check something.  
Summer 1: What should we do Morty? 
Summer 2: I'm gonna help Grampa. 
Morty 1: Let's see if he needs help. 
Morty 2: What do you mean you're gonna help him. 
Summer 1: Ugh, I can help too. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage] 
All Mortys: What's going on Rick? 
All Summers: What's happening Grampa? 
All Ricks: Shut up! (Rick turns on a monitor) Oh crap are you kidding me? Two dots? This never needs to be more than one dot. The two of you made us uncertain! 
Morty 1: What do you mean? 
Morty 2: What? In English? 
Summer 1: What? English please? 
Summer 2: What are you talking about? 
All Ricks: Our time is fractured. You two somehow created a feedback loop of uncertainty that's split our reality into two equally possible impossiblities. W-we're exactly like a man capable of sustaining a platonic friendship with an attractive female co-worker. We're entirely hypothetical. 
All Mortys: But I thought there were infinite timelines. 
All Ricks: We're not on any timeline, dummy. Look. 
Scene Action: (Rick opens the garage door, revealing floating cats, trees and islands.) 
All Mortys: Oh, my God! 
All Summers: Are those cats? 
All Ricks: I assume they're Schrodinger's cats. A-actually, I assume they both are and aren't, just like us.  
Summer 1 & Morty 2: Is the world gone? Where are Mom and Dad? 
All Ricks: “Mom and Dad?” Get your head out of your family's ass. The three of us are lost in a timeless oblivion. Your parents get to exist. They're probably living it up in some pointless grounded story about their sh*t marriage. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Jerry's car]  
Jerry: Cold Stone Creamery is the best. What should we do with our remaining twenty dollars? 
Beth: You realize they sing no matter how much you tip. 
Scene Action: (Jerrry hits a deer.) 
Beth: Holy shit! What happened?  
Jerry: I hit a deer! W-we have to tell the cops you were driving. 
Beth: W-what? 
Jerry: This is Rum Raisin! 
Scene Action: (Beth hands Jerry her ice cream, gets out of the car and goes over to the deer.) 
Beth: It's still alive. 
Jerry: Well, do we- do I uh, get a big rock? Or-- 
Beth: It's not an armadillo, asshole! 
Jerry: I thought that's what a man's supposed to say, it's not like I could have actually done it. 
Beth: If we were near a hospital, I could treat it, but I-I think we have to just- 
Jerry: It's okay, this is just something that happens. And even if we were in a hospital, what could we do, you're a horse surgeon, not a deer surgeon. 
Beth: So... 
Jerry: Well don't different animals- 
Beth: Require different levels of skill to keep alive? 
Jerry: Oh God... 
Beth: Get the deer in the car, Jerry. 
Jerry: Yes Beth. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage]
All Ricks: This is why you don't freeze time, you guys. It's incredibly irresponsible.
Morty 1: And you did it so you could clean the house after a party. 
Morty 2: And you did it so you could clean the house after a party? 
All Ricks: Look, there's no time to hold me accountable, Morty. Like literally no time. Look around. Uncertainty is inherently unsustainable. Eventually everything either is or isn't. And we've got about four hours to be “is”. 
Morty 1: Or... 
Morty 2: Or? 
All Ricks: We “isn't” 
All Ricks: Alright, since this time crystal exists in both possibilities, and since it's impossible that I didn't nail this, I'm probably about to press this button in both possibilities at exactly the same time. 
Morty 1 & Summer 2: How do you know you're gonna- 
All Ricks: Whatever you're asking, the answer is I'm amazing. And away we go! 
Scene Action: (Rick presses a button, the timelines almost merge) 
Rick: Huh, what do you know, it's working 
Summer 1: Ow, ow ouch! 
Morty 2: Whoa, ow, ow. 
Rick: Oh shit. 
Scene Action: (Realities separate again) 
All Ricks: What the hell is wrong with you two!? I—I m—I m—I mean you four!? 
All Mortys and Summer 2: That hurt! That was painful... 
All Ricks: Good I'm glad it was painful. You do deserve it! I saw you, you're both *belch* all over the damn place. We've been split for twenty minutes and your lives are already scattered to the quantum f***ing wind? What the hell do either of you have to be so uncertain about? Your brand of zit cream? Which chair to sit in while I do everything? Come on, spit it out! 
All Mortys: Well you don't exactly make it easy, Rick! 
Morty 1: You make fun of me all the time and now Summer's doing it too! 
Morty 2: You're always picking on me and now you got someone to kiss your ass! 
Summer 1: Me? What about you? Would you get more excited to see me fail? You want Grampa all to yourself! 
Summer 2: Me? You're just as mean to me because you're jealous, because you want Grampa all to yourself! 
All Ricks: Alright, cool it, I see what's happening here. You're both young, you're both unsure about your place in the universe, you both wanna be “Grampa's favorite.” I can fix this. Morty sit here, Summer, you sit here. Now listen, I know the two of you are very different from each other in a lot of ways, but you have to understand that as far as Grampa's concerned, you're both pieces of shit. Yeah, I can prove it mathematically. Actually, let me grab my whiteboard. This has been a long time coming anyway. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Outside animal hospital.]
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside animal hospital.]
Beth: Emergency, wounded deer coming in. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside animal hospital operating room.]
Scene Action: (Vet is taking a snake's pulse.)
Vet: Three. Excuse me, you can't be back here. 
Beth: I'm a certified horse surgeon, and this deer needs medical attention. Nurse, please move that snake. 
Vet: That's my nurse, and as a horse surgeon, I'm sure that you know that deer have much smaller, much more intricate organs- 
Beth: As a vet, I'm sure you know a deer is closer to a horse than you are to a doctor, so let's save the measuring for when our dicks are out, it's time to save a life! 
Vet: Geez... 
Scene Action: (Vet removes Snake from operating table. Beth and Jerry place deer on operating table.) 
Beth: That's odd, this deer's wounded.  
Jerry: Uh, yeah, I was there, you don't have to rub it in. 
Beth: I mean it's been shot. With a gun. 
Hunter: My gun. 
Vet: May I help you, sir? 
Hunter: No, but you can stop helping this deer. I shot it before these two hit it with their car and I followed them when they hauled it off. This deer belongs to me. 
Vet: Look, I don't know what the law says about this, but I took an oath that I would let no animal come to harm. Except when sterilizing, aborting or euthenizing them and also when eating them at almost any meal. 
Hunter: I'm calling my lawyer. I hope for all our sakes you're as bad a surgeon as I am a hunter. 
Beth: In your dreams, bitch! Scalpel! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage.]
All Ricks: So in conclusion, you're both equally mercurial, overly sensitive, clingy hysterical bird brained homunculi. And I honestly can't tell the two of you half the time because I don't go by height or age, I go by amount of pain in my ass, which makes you both identical. Alright, everything resolved? Everybody nice and certain about their position in my world? 
All Mortys and All Summers: Yes. 
All Ricks: Alright, perfect. Sit still, *belch* arms down, I'm gonna do this again, this time, be like Grampa. 
Morty 2: You mean drunk? 
Rick 2: What's that? You got something to say? 
Rick 1: And away we go! 
Morty 2: No. 
Rick 2: And away we go! 
All Ricks: Huh, that's weird. Oh, my God. 
All Summers: What? 
All Ricks: That son of a bitch is gonna kill me! 
Rick 2: Follicle unfeeling sociopath. Don't you get it? He thinks he can save his own skin by using the crystal to kill me. He probably figures it's easier to eliminate one of the possibilities rather than merge them. I have to admit, it's always in the back of my mind too. The difference is I would never do it! Until now... 
Rick 1: Don't you get it? don't you get it? The other Rick isn't trying to merge us anymore. He thinks he can save his own skin by using the crystal to kill me. He probably figures it's easier to eliminate one of the possibilities rather than merge them. I have to admit, it's always in the back of my mind too. The difference is I would never do it! Until now... 
All Mortys: Rick what the hell are you doing? 
All Ricks: Saving our lives. After he takes me out he's gonna be coming for you! 
All Summers: Who? 
All Ricks: Me! 
Rick 2: You see that? Get down. 
All Summers: Ahh! 
All Mortys: Whoa whoa! 
Rick 1: I told you he's a psycho! 
Rick 2: He's lost it. The time fracture must have made him crazy! 
Rick 1: I don't know what to do! I don't know what to do! 
Summer 2 or 4 after splitting into 4 : Oh crap! 
Scene Action: (Reality splits into 4 parts) 
All Ricks: Oh God, now there's three of them, we're outnumbered! Get in the cupboards! Wait, don't don't do that, they'll know... wait wait, think about getting in the cupboards but don't really. AAAAH IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT YOU SICK FUCKS? YOU WANNA SEE CHILDREN DIE? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside animal hospital operating room.]
Beth: You son of a bitch, you don't stop living until I SAY SO! 
Lawyer: Michael. 
Vet: Who's this now? 
Hunter: My lawyer. 
Lawyer: I'm here to notify you ma'am, that in this county, any deer shot by a hunter is that hunter's property, regardless of how far it runs, or who intercepts it before it dies. It's called Brad's law. We can't make you stop the surgery, but at this point you're performing it on venison.  
Hunter: Actually, I've decided not to eat it. All this fear and conflict. I'm sure it's ruined the meat. I'm just gonna use the head for my rec room wall. 
Jerry: She normally works on horses. 
Beth: Jerry, if you're not gonna help, get the fuck out of here! I will reach into heaven and yank your screaming deer soul back! 
Vet: Jesus... 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage.]
All Ricks: Shh shh... I know where you are, you creepy old monster... I know how you think! Oh, is this where you think I'm going? You think I'm standing here? Well maybe you're right! 
Scene Action: (Morty knocks Rick out with a fire extinguisher)
All Summers: Holy shit, now what? 
All Mortys: Well if all of me knocked out all the Ricks, and you peed in all of your pants, doesn't that mean that we're all synchronized? 
All Summers: Right. 
All Mortys: Okay... so from now on, whatever we do we have to be certain. 
All Summers: Right... 
All Mortys: I think I'm certain we're F'd in the A. 
Scene Action: [Cut to black]
Scene Action: [Trans. Outside the house in Schrodinger cat space]
All Ricks: Oh God, my head. What did you guys do? 
All Mortys: We put you in a dog crate because you were acting crazy, and you caused another time fracture.  
All Summers: You tried to kill yourself! 
All Ricks: Only in self defense, myself tried to kill me first! Guys, I don't expect you to understand this, but time breaking twice means our problem is two times bigger and we've got half as much time to solve it. Well actually, I do expect you to understand that, it's basic math. C-could someone just let me out of here? If I die in a cage I lose a bet.  
All Summers: Well is there some way you can prove you're not a threat to yourself and others anymore? 
All Ricks: Ah, for God's sake, alright here, give me the time crystal. 
All Mortys: W-what're you doing? 
All Ricks: Calling myself. Here, listen, *belch* it'll probably go to voice mail since, you know, I'm calling myself. 
All Rick phones: Hello, Rick here. 
All Ricks: Don't fall for it, it's a bit. 
All Rick phones: Just kidding, haha! You just got Ricked. You've reached Rick's voicemail, you know what to do *beep*. 
All Ricks: Hey Rick, it's Rick. Listen, I'm sorry about earlier. No hard feelings. I know you know I mean it too. Take it easy. Whoa. Damn, look at this, I'm blown up. Three new voicemails. *voicemail repeats* Yeah yeah, I heard this one. *voicemail repeats two more times* You get the idea *belch* we're cool now. 
All Summers: Okay, well we're still not gonna let you out of this crate. 
All Ricks: Fine I'll just do it myself. 
All Mortys: If you could get out that whole time why didn't you? 
All Ricks: Because I waited until I was certain it was what I wanted to do, Morty. That's the difference between you and me. I'm certain, and you're a walking burlap sack filled with turds. 
All Mortys: You know, geez Rick, y—y—you're really tearing into me right now. You know, words hurt. 
Scene Action: (Testicle Monster A floats into view in a bubble.) 
Morty 1: Oh, my God! 
Morty 2: It's a monster! 
Morty 3: Oh, my God! It's a monster! 
Summer 1: It's a monster! 
Summer 4: It's a monster! 
Testicle Monster A: Ey, ye ey, quit yellin' quit yellin'. 
Summer 1: *Screams* 
Summer 4: Oh, my God... 
Morty 2, 3 and 4: *Screams* 
Testicle Monster A: What the fuck?! Your time is all ripped up to hell! You broke your time, twice! 
All Ricks: *sigh* 
Testicle Monster A: How did this happen? 
Summers 2 & 3: Yeah, but we don't even know, the first time... 
Morty 1 & 4: Who's that Brother Newman time elf? 
Testicle Monster A: Shut the fuck up! Oh, damn, I'm from the 4th dimension. I can hear all o' y'all. Now let's just see what we got here for a second. 
All Ricks: *groan* 
Testicle Monster A: Ay, damn it, were you tryin' to use this to- oh, see, you broke time, and you thought you could just stick it back together with this? How you think you gonna move time while you're standin in it you dumn ass three-dimensional monkey ass dummies? 
All Mortys: Oh way to go, Rick. 
All Summers: Yeah Grampa, way to go. 
All Ricks: Oh, what you're just gonna listen to this guy now? He's got a giant testicle for a head! He came here in a bubble. For all we know he could be the David Berkowitz of Nutsack Land. 
Testicle Monster A: Shut up. Here, put these on. They'll sync your possibilities up so I can bring you back to certain time. Y'all just-just negligent, now ay, ay, ay, the three of you, put your collars on! 
Summer 1, 2 and 3: What are you talking about? 
Morty 1, 2 and 3: We have them on. 
Rick 1, 2 and 3: Uh, we did... 
Rick 4: We're not wearing collars. 
Testicle Monster A: Exactly, because you're being obstinate. 
Rick 1, 2 and 3: *belch* What? 
Morty 1, 2 and 3: We did! 
Summer 1, 2 and 3: They're on right now. 
Rick 4: Alright, fine. Summer, Morty, put 'em on. 
Scene Action: (Alternate timelines merge into one) 
Rick: Yes, we're back, problem solved. 
Summer: Yes, we're back to our own time. 
Morty: Yes no more cats, no more cats, oh you did it, you fixed it. 
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, now keep those collars on so you don't break your weak ass time again. 
Rick: How long exactly do we have to wear these things? They're really embarassing. 
Testicle Monster A: Well since you're goin' to time prison, I'd say you can keep em on forever. 
Summer: Time prison? 
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, well I don't know where you expect me to think you got that crystal over there, but the only way you dumb ass, assin' ass asses could ever have one, is if it was stolen. 
Summer: You stole a time freezing crystal from testical monsters? 
Rick: I would have been happy to pay for it, Summer, but they don't exactly sell them at Costco. Besides, there's a larger lesson to be learned here. Get him! 
Testicle Monster A: Ututututut! You'd better keep back! Man this will turn your ass into a third trimester fetus from 30 yards. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside animal hospital operating room.]
Vet: Hmm... 
Beth: Isn't there a kitten somewhere that needs a manicure? 
Lawyer: That's right Mrs. Smith, *whispers* give in to your anger. Neglect that deer. 
Jerry: Honey, it's gonna be okay. These men are from the Cervine Institute of Elk, Moose Deer and Stag. They can take this deer to a helicopter and fly it to the country's top deer surgeon on a wildlife reserve across the state border, where your jurisdiction ends. 
Vet: I guess that's the end of that. 
Lawyer: There is just one more thing. According to this state's veterinarian statute, this animal can't be transferred until the current attending physician verbally confirms their inability to provide adequate care. You heard the man horse doctor, you have to say you couldn't hack it. 
Jerry: We did it... 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage.]
Testicle Monster A: (On phone) Uh-huh, no motha- no, Earth, dude, I'm talking 'bout, yeah, with the dinosaurs. No, if you've get to the dolphin people, you've gone too far. Alright man, I'll talk to you later, okay. (hangs up) You know what they do with 3rd dimensional life forms in time prison? Same thing they do in every other prison, only forever. 
Morty: Why are you doing this? 
Testicle Monster A: You think I wanna be an omniscient immortal being transcending time and space my whole life? I got ambitions man, bringin' you guys in is my ticket up. 
Rick: What if I told you there's a huge ticket up right behind you? 
Testicle Monster A: You really think I'm that stupid? 
Rick: Alright, hear me out on this. You're immortal, right, which means your life is infinite. Well in that case there's 100% chance that you'll eventually do everything, including turning around to look behind you. 
Testicle Monster A: I cannot argue that. 
Scene Action: (Rick hits the creature with a wrench and grabs the organic gun he was holding)
Rick: Ah, God, gross and weird! 
Scene Action: (Rick drops the gun and it crawls toward the street) 
Testicle Monster A: Chris! 
Scene Action: (The gun/Chris runs into the road and is run over by a car) 
Testicle Monster A: You killed my gun! 
Rick: Summer, Morty, take off your collars! 
Testicle Monster A: What? What the hell are you doing? 
Rick: Good question. I suppose the answer is: I'm not certain! 
Testicle Monster A: Oh, no, what are you doin'? 
Scene Action: (Time splits into 2 timelines)
Rick 1: I have no idea! 
Rick 2: I'm not sure. 
Scene Action: (Time splits into 4 timelines) 
All Ricks : Maybe I will, maybe I won't. 
Scene Action: (Time Splits into 8 timelines) 
All Ricks : I'm really uncertain about everything, even kicking your ass! 
Testicle Monster A: Lis- ay, to, AH. But these arms are vestigial. Now you poked me where an eye would have been about six million years ago.  
All Summers : Come on, let's help Grampa. 
All Mortys : Yeah. I'm like a hundred percent not sure about anything. 
Scene Action: (Time splits twice, now 32 Timelines) 
Summers 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18, 20, 25, 28, 29, 31: Beat his ass! 
Summers 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 25, 27, 28: Get him! 
Summers 2, 6, 9, 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32: Beat him up! 
Scene Action: (Zooms into only show one timeline: Timeline 23)
Morty 23: Kick his ass, Rick! 
Scene Action: (Ricks, Mortys, and Summers hit Testicle Monster A one last time, he falls back and his head explodes.) 
Testicle Monster A: Ow, I'm defeated... 
Summer 23: What's happening?  
Rick 23: Time is falling apart, we've got to get back to certainty, quick! Give me your collars! 
Morty 23: Oh man, don't you have to fix, like, thirty of them?  
Rick 23: Morty, I have to fix three of them, and then there's thirty-one other versions of me that have to also fix three for a total of 96. I'm not an idiot. I know how to be decisive, now hand me that (Phillips/Flathead) screwdriver. Actually, make it a (Phillips/Flathead). 
Scene Action: (Time splits into 64 timelines) 
All Ricks : Oh, shit. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Jerry's car]  
Jerry: Look, I know I was kind of a nuisance today. I know it's my fault we hit the deer, and I know you wanted to be the one to save it.  
Beth: Whatever. How petty would I have to be to care less about an animal's life than my own ego? 
Jerry: Hmm... you'd have to be pretty petty. But you'd still be the woman I married. 
Beth: Where are we going? 
Jerry: One last stop. 
Beth: Where's the helicopter? 
Jerry: There is no helicopter and there is no Cervine Institute. 
Beth: But the top deer surgeon... 
Jerry: I'm looking at her. Thanks for F.D.'ing me up like that. 
Cold Stone Employee: You'd better get moving, these lights are designed for basic ice cream work, they're not gonna last all night. 
Beth: I need five minutes. 
Scene Action: (Short slow-panning montage of surgery) 
Beth: Jerry, this was the most romantic weekend I've ever had. 
Jerry: Thanks to Cold Stone Creamery. 
Cold Stone Employee: You're welcome. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Inside Rick's garage.]
Scene Action: (Zoom into Timeline 30)
 All Ricks: Okay, we're out of time. It's ironic, huh? 
Morty 30: Rick! 
Rick 30: What's goin' on? 
Morty 30: The collar, oh, the latch is broken! It won't latch closed around my neck! 
Scene Action: (Zoom pan to Timeline 28) 
 All Mortys Except Morty 30: What's wrong, how come our collars aren't green? 
 All Ricks Except Rick 30: Obviously because someone doesn't know how to put his collar on and one of me is stuck trying to help him. 
 All Mortys Except Morty 30: Don't blame this on me, you're the one that couldn't fix a latch! 
Scene Action: (Zoom pan to Timeline 30) 
Rick 30: What are you talking about, it's not broken, Morty, I fixed it, just put it on! 
Morty 30: It won't close, it's broken! 
Rick 30: Fine, bring it here. 
Morty 30: Ooh, ooh, Rick! 
Scene Action: (Zoom pan to Timeline 15) 
 All Ricks Except Rick 30: Oh, really, Morty? Well I'm sorry, I'm not the one that's so fucking uncertain about everything! 
 All Mortys Except Morty 30: You know what I'm certain of, Rick? I've really made up my mind about this, I never wanna see you again! 
 All Ricks Except Rick 30: You're never gonna see anything again you little dummy! You killed us! 
Scene Action: (Zoom pan to Timeline 30) 
Rick 30: Goddammit! 
Morty 30: Ooh 
Rick 30: Morty where's your collar I'll fix it 
Morty 30: I dropped it 
 All Ricks Except Rick 30: What the hell? What have you done to me, Morty? 
Rick 30: I'm okay with this. Be good Morty. Be better than me. Bullsh*t The other collar! I'm not okay with this! I am not okay with this! Oh, sweet Jesus please let me live. Oh, my God I—I've gotta fix this thing, please God in Heaven, please, God, oh Lord, hear my prayers. Yes! Fuck you God! Not today, bitch. 
 All Ricks Except Rick 30: Please, God, if there's a Hell, please be merciful to me. 
Rick 30: Yes I did it! There is no God! In your face. One dot, motherfuckers! 
Morty: Yes, oh, yes, yes! 
Summer: Woohoo! Whoo! Whoo! 
Morty: Oh, that was a close call. Oh yeah, do it Rick, do it right. 
Rick: You know what I'm talking about, oh yeah. I'm gonna do the cabbage patch, Morty. Check me out I'm doing the cabbage patch dance. It's a classic dance, remember, like this. Oh shit look at that. 
Morty: Do the cabbage patch. Do—do—do the dance. 
Summer: Hey wait a second, how come you guys took longer to get here? 
Morty: I don't know. I think like one sixty-fourth of my collars didn't work. It's hard to keep straight now that I have sixty-three other memories of everything. 
Rick: Yeah. 
Morty: But I feel like one of the sixty-four Ricks like, sacrificed himself for me, maybe, I think. 
Rick: Shut up, Morty. The last time you felt something, we all almost died. You little s—piece of shit. 
Beth: Hey guys, we're home.
Scene Action: (Summer and Morty run up and hug Beth and Jerry, respectively.)
Morty & Summer: Mom, Dad! 
Jerry: Um, hold the phone, where did you guys get those necklaces from? Uh, Lady Gaga, table for three, am I right? 
Beth: *laughs* 
Jerry: Are you guys Power Rangers? But only on one small part of your necks? Hey, do those things need batteries? Were they included? Clean up in the fruit isle! Not in a homophobic way though, they're just fruity necklaces is all I was saying. 
Beth: *laughing* I'm gonna pee my pants. 
Morty: Doesn't feel so good, does it? 
Rick: No it doesn't. It hurts. 
Beth: I'm gonna pee-hee-hee. 
Jerry: Somebody call the planet of Tron, we have three Tron people over here. But seriously, are these Halloween costumes? Are you going as motorcycles? With green headlights instead of normal ones? Are you dogs? Robot dogs? Gosh, you guys are lame. Are those chokers from the 90's? What is this, a 90's nostalgia thing? Are you guys in that movie “The Craft” with Fairuza Balk? 
Scene Action: [End credits] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Testicle Monster travelling through time, stops at ice age with a wooly mammoth in the background.] 
Testicle Monster A: Hey man, when the hell were you? 
Testicle Monster B: Looking for you, asshole. 
Testicle Monster A: I told you past the dinosaurs. 
Testicle Monster B: You know how much time is past the dinosaurs? Half of all time! 
Testicle Monster A: Come on, man, it's this way... 
Testicle Monster B: Come on, give me that thing, speed it up, he can't be this far back. 
Scene Action: [Monster A spots a man that looks Rick writing on a chalkboard] 
Testicle Monster A: There he is, there he is, there he is, there he is, stop, stop. 
Scene Action: [Man who looks like Rick turns around, it turns out to be Albert Einstein] 
Testicle Monster B: So that's the guy, huh? 
Testicle Monster A: Yeah, that's him. Hey, man, remember me? [he and Monster B start beating up Einstein, knocking him to the ground] I got something for your ass! You don't mess with time! You don't f*** with time, mother****er! [he and Monster B leave] 
Albert Einstein: I vill mess vith time! 
Scene Action: [Einstein gets up and determinately writes E=MC2 in the chalkboard] 
Albert Einstein: I vill mess vith time... 
Scene Action: [END] 
Scene Action: [Open Ext. Rick's Ship in Outer Space] 
Scene Action: (Morty drives, Rick sits in the passenger seat, and Jerry is in the back.) 
Rick: Learning to fly this thing, Morty, it's gonna be really liberating. Y-Y-You’re gonna be free to go on all kinds of errands for me. 
Morty: Cool. 
Rick: *points out the window* See that planet right there? Don’t fly too close to that planet. Someone’ll come out and try to wash your windshield. (Rick’s phone rings.) Hold on. *picks up* Yup. Yeah, I have it. Where do you wanna meet? Alright, cool. *hangs up* Alright Morty, lesson’s over. We got some business to attend to a few lightminutes south of here. 
Jerry: Oh, you still use ‘south’ in space? 
Rick: *startled* WHOA! Jesus, Jerry, what the hell are you doing here?! 
Jerry: What are you talking about? We agreed a boy’s father should be present when he’s learning to drive. 
Rick: I guess I remember that. *rubs forehead* Wow. And you’ve just been back there this whole time? Amazing. Well we don’t have time to take him to Earth, Morty. Head for 3124-917. 
Jerry: *chuckles* Cool! Looks like I’m comin’ along for an adventure! 
Rick: Yep. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Empty space] 
Morty: This is where we’re going? 
Rick: Nope. (An asteroid-like mass materializes before them.) This is. You can park in a handicapped spot, Morty. Anything with less than eight limbs is considered disabled here. 
Scene Action: (Morty parks clumsily.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Jerryboree] 
Scene Action: (Human Music plays in the lobby as Rick signs Jerry in.) 
Jerry-Sitter: Well look at this fella. *pinches Jerry’s cheek* Aren’t you handsome? 
Jerry: Thank you! I’m Jerry. *extends hand* 
Jerry-Sitter: *as if speaking to a child* Oh, I know you are. Did you come here in a spaceship? 
Scene Action: (She guides Jerry through a set of doors.) 
Jerry: I’m travelling with my son and father-in-law. Uh, wait, are they coming? 
Jerry-Sitter: Oh, they’ll be back soon. 
Jerry: What? 
Scene Action: (A set of sliding doors open, revealing a room full of Jerrys from different dimensions.) 
Pajama Jerry: I don’t know how this works! 
Underpants Jerry: Help me! 
Jerry: What the hell? 
Pajama Jerry: I know, right? 
Tuxedo Jerry: *enters room* Oh, what the hell? 
Jerry: I know, right? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerryboree Lobby] 
Morty: *looking at a pamphlet* Jerryboree? You created a daycare for my dad? 
Rick: You kidding? I wish I had this idea. Well… I did have this idea, but I wish I was the version of me that owned it. That guy’s rich. 
Receptionist: Don’t forget to check the reason for your drop-off. 
Rick: *checks off “Stowaway” and “Annoying me”* Trust me Morty, I’ve heard stories from other Ricks. Jerrys don’t tend to last five minutes off of Earth. This is a totally unregistered cross-temporal asteroid. Here they can romp and play with other Jerrys. It couldn’t be safer. 
Scene Action: (As they walk out, Rick hands Morty a ticket.) 
Rick: Hey Morty, hang onto this. That number’s your dad. If you lose it, we’re not gonna be able to get him back. 
Scene Action: [Intro sequence] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Parking garage] 
Scene Action: (Morty parks the ship clumsily, damaging nearby vehicles.) 
Rick: Okay, wait here. 
Morty: I wanna come with. 
Rick: Don’t come with. It’s boring, it’s *burps* business stuff. 
Morty: What kinda business do you do in a garage? You know, this seems a little shady. 
Rick: Right, like nothing shady ever happened in a fully furnished office? You ever hear about Wall Street Morty? Y-You know what those guys do in th—in their fancy board rooms? They take their balls, and they dip ‘em in cocaine, and they wipe ‘em all over each other. You know, Grandpa goes around, and he does his business in public because Grandpa isn’t shady. 
Scene Action: (Krombopulos Michael knocks on Rick’s window.) 
Rick: Ah, crap. *rolls down window* Hey, what’s up? 
Krombopulos Michael: Hey, Rick! Haha! Here you go, three thousand Flurbos! D’you have the weapon? 
Rick: Can… Can we please…? This is my grandson, Morty. 
Krombopulos Michael: Well hi Morty! I’m Krombopulos Michael! I’m an assassin. I buy guns from your grandpa. 
Rick: Ugh. *passes Krombopulos Michael a case containing the antimatter gun* Here, now go away. 
Krombopulos Michael: *examines weapon* Ooh, yeah, this looks deadly. So this shoots antimatter? My target can’t be killed with regular matter. Nice to meet you, Morty! Listen, if you ever need anybody murdered, *passes Morty his card* please give me a call. I’m very discrete— 
Rick: Y-Y-Y-You’re gonna give him your card?! 
Krombopulos Michael: I have no code of ethics, I will kill anyone, anywhere! Children, animals, old people, doesn’t matter. I just love killin’! 
Scene Action: (Krombopulos Michael leaves.) 
Morty: …You sell weapons to killers for money? 
Rick: Ugh… You’ve got what the intergalactic call a very planetary mindset, Morty. It’s more complicated out here! These are Flurbos. Do you understand what two humans can accomplish with three thousand of these? 
Morty: Uh, what? 
Rick: An entire afternoon at Blips and Chiiiitz! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Blips and Chitz] 
Rick: Aw, this place is the best. It’s got beer, games, prizes, and you can never tell what time it is. 
Morty: You sold a gun to a murderer so you could play video games? 
Rick: Yeah, sure, if you spend all day shuffling words around you can make anything sound bad, Morty. *puts a helmet on Morty’s head* Here, check this out. 
Scene Action: (Morty’s eyes roll back into his head.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Roy’s room] 
Roy: Ah! 
Scene Action: (Roy wakes up, frightened and panting.) 
Roy’s mother: Roy, what’s wrong? 
Roy: I…had a nightmare. I was with an old man… He put a helmet on me. 
Roy’s mother: It’s just a fever. Get some sleep, I don’t want you missing school on Monday. *walks out of the room and switches off the lights* 
Scene Action: [Trans. Roy’s school] 
Teacher: I want you kids to look around you today and think about your future. (Roy looks outside and sees kids playing with a football. He smiles.) Now is the time in your life when anything is possible. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Football game] 
Scene Action: (Roy is now older, and a football player.) 
Announcer: Spiraling perfectly, it’s gonna be caught by Roy Parsons! Roy Parsons is at the 20! (Roy makes eye contact with a girl in the stands.) Now he’s at the 10! Nothing can stop Roy the Rocket! Touchdown! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Roy’s kitchen] 
Scene Action: (Roy is older, now married to the girl from the football game with a young son. They’re eating dinner.) 
Roy’s wife: I just think it’s time to get realistic. Have you talked to my father about the carpet store? Roy? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Carpet store] 
Scene Action: (Roy now works at the carpet store. He gets a call from his doctor.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Doctor’s office] 
Doctor: Had we caught it sooner… Well, hindsight is 20-20, Roy. What’s important is that we move quickly. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Hospital room] 
Scene Action: (Roy is battling cancer. His wife, older, sits with him.) 
Roy: I’m not…ready to die… 
Roy’s wife: *takes his hand* You’re not going to. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Roy’s house] 
Scene Action: (Roy survived surgery. His wife wheelchairs him into the house, where friends and relatives applaud his entry. A streamer reads “CANCER CAN’T BEAT THE ROCKET”) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Carpet store] 
Scene Action: (Roy is older still, now greying and wearing glasses.) 
Customer: Hey, thanks for the carpet, Roy. 
Scene Action: (Roy shakes his hand, then sits and looks fondly at a trophy that reads “World’s Greatest Dad.”) 
Voice: *shouting from off screen* Hey Roy, you pull those Persian off-white shags for the clearance sale? 
Scene Action: (Roy gets up and steps onto a short ladder to retrieve the rugs. He loses his balance.) 
Roy: Whoa. Sh-shit! Shit! 
Scene Action: (He hits the ground and dies. Text reads “GAME OVER”.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Blips and Chitz] 
Scene Action: (Morty regains consciousness and removes the helmet, frightened and confused.) 
Morty: Whoa! What the hell?! Wha—Where am I?! What the hell?! 
Rick: Fifty-five years. Not bad, Morty. You kinda wasted your thirties though with that whole birdwatching phase. 
Morty: *looks around, grips his head* W… Where’s my wife? 
Rick: Morty. You were just playing a game. It’s called Roy. Snap out of it, come on. *hands him his tickets* 
Morty: I’m Morty… You’re Rick… Hey, you sold a gun to a guy that kills people! 
Rick: Lookit this. You beat cancer and then you went back to work at the carpet store? Boo. 
Scene Action: (Rick sits in the seat to play Roy.) 
Morty: Don’t dodge the issue, Rick! Selling a gun to a hitman is the same as pulling the trigger! 
Rick: It’s also the same as doing nothing. If Krombopulos Michael wants someone dead, there’s not a lot anybody can do to stop him. That’s why he does it for a living? Now if you’ll excuse me, it’s time to thrash your Roy score. *puts on the helmet* 
Morty: You could stop this killing from happening, Rick! You know, y-you did a bad thing selling that gun, but you could undo it if you wanted! 
Rick: Uh-huh, yeah, that’s the difference between you and me, Morty. I never go back to the carpet store. 
Alien: *passing by, sees Rick playing Roy* Holy shit! This guy’s taking Roy off the grid! (Other alien patrons gasp and congregate around Rick.) This guy doesn’t have a social security number for Roy! 
Scene Action: (Morty looks at Krombopulos Michael’s business card, which shows his location, and walks away.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerryboree] 
Scene Action: (Jerry approaches the Jerrysitter from earlier.) 
Jerry: Hi, I’m sorry, I think there was a misunderstanding. I’m an adult and would like to go home, please. 
Jerry-Sitter: Well of course! Right through that tube. *points to a tube in the wall* 
Jerry: *muttering to self* Unbelievable. *approaches the tube and starts climbing in* 
Jerry-Sitter: You’re doing great! 
Jerry: *indignantly* I know how to crawl in a tube. *to himself, while crawling* Ugh… Come on… This is harder than it looks… (Suddenly the tube transitions into a slide.) Whoooooaaaa! 
Scene Action: (Jerry lands in a ballpit in an area designed similarly to the Smith house. Other Jerrys are in the ballpit playing Marco Polo.) 
Pink-shirt Jerry: Marco? (Jerrys laugh.) Marco? 
Other Jerry: Come find me. 
Pink-shirt Jerry: Marco? (Jerrys laugh again.) 
Scene Action: (Our Jerry seems disturbed.) 
Jerry: You guys are enjoying this? Don’t you feel a little… patronized? 
Pink-shirt Jerry: How so? 
Scene Action: (Someone dressed in a large Beth costume approaches the ballpit.) 
Daycare Beth: Jerry! 
Other Jerry: Beeeth. 
Jerry: Oh, come on, this is ridiculous! 
Daycare Beth: I love you, Jerry! 
Jerry: Aw… Beth… 
Daycare Beth: Who wants to come watch Midnight Run with director’s commentary on? 
Jerrys: Oh! Yes! Definitely! 
Daycare Beth: First one there gets to adjust the picture settings! 
Scene Action: (Jerrys become more excited.) 
Jerry: The factory tint setting is always too high! *climbs out of the ballpit and hurries after “Beth” with the other Jerrys* 
Other Jerry: Out of my way! 
Another Jerry: The factory tint setting is always too high! 
Scene Action: [Timeskip] 
Scene Action: (Daycare Beth sits on a couch with a Jerry on each side of her and dozens of other Jerrys surrounding them, watching Midnight Run.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Government outpost] 
Scene Action: (Krombopulos Michael prepares to carry out the hit. He holds up a heart shaped locket with a picture of a presumed romantic partner in it, kisses the locket, and puts it away.) 
Krombopulos Michael: Oh boy, here I go killin’ again! 
Scene Action: (Krombopulos Michael sneaks through the building, killing several Gromflomite guards along the way before arriving in the chamber his target is kept. His target appears to be a strange, gaseous being. Krombopulos Michael draws his weapon, but before he can shoot, Morty crashes Rick’s ship through the ceiling, crushing him.) 
Ship: You have arrived at Krombopulos Michael. Your destination is below. 
Morty: *dazed* All out of off-white Persians… *gets out of the ship and realizes he killed Krombopulos Michael* Oh man, wha-wh-wh-what have I done?! *picks up KM’s arm and the antimatter gun* 
Gromflomite: (pointing a gun at Morty) Drop the gun! 
Morty: You don’t understand! This guy was gonna kill someone! 
Gromflomite: I guess that makes two of us. *fires up his weapon* 
Scene Action: (A portal forms through the guard, bisecting him down the middle, and Rick walks out of it.) 
Rick: What are you doing Morty?! This is a Galactic Federation outpost! Look, I don’t have time to tell you my entire backstory, but Grandpa and government don’t get along! 
Fart: You saved my life! 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty both turn to face the gaseous being.) 
Rick: What? 
Morty: Huh?! Are you Krombopulos Michael’s target? W-Wwwwhat’s your name? 
Fart: My kind has no use for names. I communicate through what you call “Jessica’s feet.” No, “telepathy.” 
Rick: Oh, good job, Morty. Y-Y-Y-You killed my best customer but you saved a mind-reading fart! 
Fart: I like this name, ‘Fart.’ Morty, would you kindly release me by pulling that lever to the left of my cell? I am in great pain. 
Rick: Morty, don’t do it. (Morty walks toward the lever.) Morty… (Morty glances at Rick before pulling the lever. Alarms start to sound as Fart escapes his cell.) Morty, you idiot! 
Morty: Oh crap, let’s get you outta here! 
Rick: We can’t get him outta here. He’s gaseous. He’s not gonna make it through a portal, Morty. 
Morty: *stomps past Rick* Well then I guess we’re all getting in the car! Right, uh… 
Fart: Fart. 
Morty: No! Jus-j-j-just get in the car! 
Scene Action: (Fart floats into the car and Morty sits in the driver’s seat.) 
Rick: Morty, come on, I-I wanna go back to Blips and Chitz. I don’t wanna deal with this! 
Morty: Y-You’ve been clear on the fact that you don’t wanna help, so just go away! 
Fart: More are coming. 
Scene Action: (Rick starts walking off.) 
Rick: Screw this. I’m out. 
Scene Action: (Rick forms a portal and leaves through it. Morty tries to start the car as a Gromflomite approaches, but it stalls.) 
Morty: Oooh…! Come on, come on! 
Gromflomite: Get out of the vehicle made of garbage or we will open fire! 
Morty: *still trying to start the car* Oh no no no! 
Gromflomite: Open fire! 
Scene Action: (A portal appears directly above the guards and water pours out of it, flooding the room. Another portal appears on the floor, and the water and Gromflomites are sucked into it. A third portal then appears and Rick emerges through it, walking up to the car.) 
Rick: Stupid-ass fart-saving carpet-store motherfucker! *shoves Morty out of the driver’s seat and takes the wheel* Move! 
Scene Action: (Fart moves to the backseat as Morty takes the passenger seat.) 
Rick: Wait, did you fuck with my seat settings? 
Scene Action: (Morty buckles up and Rick begins adjusting the seat settings.) 
Fart: More are coming. 
Scene Action: (More Gromflomites storm into the room. Rick continues adjusting the seat.) 
Morty: Rick! 
Rick: Yeah, yeah. (He crashes the car into the Gromflomites before flying away from the outpost.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Gear World, Int. Gearhead’s shop/residence] 
Scene Action: (Rick, Morty, and Fart wait while Gearhead works on the car. Morty and Fart are watching Gazorpazorpfield.) 
Gearhead: Your geldon convertor is pretty dinged up. 
Rick: That’s ‘cause my grandson drives like a male Obavradian. Yeah, I said it. Some stereotypes are based in fact. 
Gearhead: Actually, it’s because of years of neglect. You really need to respect your gears, Rick. To you, they’re just wheels with teeth, but in my culture, wars have been fought, entire— 
Rick: *interrupts him* So I’ve heard. Just fix it. *to Morty* I don’t think the Gromflomites can track us now, but it looks like we’re gonna be here for awhile. *lowers voice* Or, ya know, if you still have that gun K. Michael dropped, we can finish the job and go home. 
Fart: You do understand I’m telepathic, right? 
Rick: I’m being polite. 
Morty: Rick, we’re taking him back where he belongs! 
Rick: Yeah, where’s that? Are you going on a quest to find he who smelt it? 
Fart: I came here accidentally through a wormhole located in what you call “get out of my head, Fart, I know you’re in here, la la la la—” No, in what you call the Promethean Nebula. 
Rick: Oh great, just a hop, skip, and an 800 lightyear jump! 
Morty: You know, you can leave any time you want, Rick. 
Rick: *walks away, muttering* Whatever you wanna do you little punk-ass little bitch… 
Fart: Thank you, Morty. You are not like other carbon-based life forms. You put the value of all life above your own. 
Morty: That’s how things should be. It’s how they could be. 
Fart: I could not agree more. 
Scene Action: (Fart envelops Morty as “Goodbye Moonmen” begins.) 
Fart: (singing over a montage formed from Morty’s imagination) The world can be one together / Cosmos without hatred / Stars like diamonds in your eyes. / The ground can be space (space, space, space, space) / With feet marching toward a peaceful sky. / All the moonmen want things their way / But we make sure they see the sun. / Goodbye, moonmen / You say goodbye, moonmen. / Goodby— 
Rick: *holding a golf club* Shut the fuck up about moonmen! This isn’t a musical number. This is a fucking operation, we gotta be cool and fucking lay low! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerryboree] 
Scene Action: (A roomful of Jerrys on computers forward each other joke emails.) 
Random Jerry: *opens email and laughs* Duck, duck, birdie? (All Jerrys open emails and laugh.) Very funny! 
Jerry: Here comes another funny… 
Other Jerry: Hahaha! Oh, this place is great. 
Jerry: I almost wish I could stay longer than one day. 
Other Jerry: *suddenly serious* You just might. 
Jerry: W-What do you mean? 
Scene Action: [Trans. Room of Forgotten Jerrys] 
Scene Action: (The other Jerry from before leads our Jerry inside.) 
Other Jerry: These are the Jerrys whose Ricks and Mortys never came back. (Forgotten Jerrys stand, sit, and lie around the room, generally looking despondent.) …They live here now. 
Jerry: Uuuum… 
Scene Action: [Trans. Gearhead’s place] 
Scene Action: (Gearhead continues working on the car while the others watch Ball Fondlers. The show is cut off by Breaking News.) 
Gear Anchor: No gear turnings as of yet in the curious case of these unidentified humanoid fugitives (An image of Rick and Morty in the car as Rick was adjusting the seat settings appears onscreen.) reportedly at large somewhere within the Gear System. 
Rick: Son of a… *approaches Fart* Why were the Gromflomites holding you prisoner? What the fuck is so valuable about you? 
Fart: I am no more valuable than life itself. However, I am able to alter the composition of atoms, like this. (An electric fuzz seems to go through the gaseous cloud and a lump of gold materializes, dropping to the ground beneath him.) That was oxygen. I added seventy-one protons to it. 
Rick: *picks up the gold* Ah, terrific. The fart that pooped gold. No wonder every cop in the system is lookin’ for us! *pockets gold* Any species that gets a hold of this thing is gonna use it to take over the galaxy. Do you know how inconvenient that’s gonna be to my work? 
Scene Action: (Sirens sound outside. Rick rushes to the window and sees police in flying vehicles have surrounded the place.) 
Rick: Somebody dropped the dime on us. Gearhead… *turns around* 
Gearhead: *pointing a gun at Rick* I’m sorry, Rick. The reward on your head is too high. And like you always say, you gotta look out for Number One. 
Rick: Number One is me, asshole! You’re supposed to be my friend! 
Gearhead: Friend? Do you even know my real name? It’s Revolio Clockberg Junior. I belong to an entire species of gear people. Calling me ‘Gearhead’ is like calling a Chinese person ‘Asia-face.’ 
Scene Action: (Rick notices a nearby box of twigs, marked with a warning. He throws them at Gearhead and they get caught in his mouth, causing him to drop the gun.) 
Gearhead: No, not twigs! 
Scene Action: (Rick kicks Gearhead in the crotch, removes his gear-testicles, pulls two gears out of his mouth, and shoves the gear-testicles in their place while Gearhead moans in pain, clutching his mouth and groin.) 
Rick: Two things I wanna make clear to everybody in this room. Never betray me, and it’s time to go. 
Scene Action: (Rick, Morty, and Fart get in the car and fly out through a window. Two gear police enter.) 
Gear Policeman #1: Nobody move! 
Scene Action: (Gearhead waves his hands, trying to communicate. The officers see how he’s been disfigured.) 
Gear Policeman #2: Oh my god. 
Gear Policeman #1: Are those…? 
Scene Action: (Both vomit oil and metal.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Gear World] 
Scene Action: (Rick leads police on a flying chase, shooting and driving at the same time. Numerous police cars crash, killing officers and civilians.) 
Rick: Hey Morty, remember when you said selling a gun was as bad as pulling the trigger? How do you feel about all these people getting killed because of your choices? 
Morty: I did the right thing, Rick! 
Rick: Tell that to Gearhead’s gearsticles. 
Morty: You did that! 
Rick: Wrong! I’d be playin’ Roy right now. At a certain point, my hands are tied, Morty. 
Scene Action: (Both don expressions of surprise as helicopters appear in front of them. Rick quickly steers the craft away and the chase continues.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Forgotten Jerrys room] 
Jerry: *playing poker with other Jerrys, sighs* I can’t believe Rick did this. This is the eighth to the last straw. 
Bearded Jerry: Ante up. 
Jerry: You know what? *throws down cards* Screw it! I have a better gamble for your guys. *leans forward* I say we escape. 
Scene Action: (Other Jerrys stare at him for several seconds.) 
Bearded Jerry: If you want to leave, you can just go out the front door. 
Tank-top Jerry: You think we’re kept here against our will? That would be illegal. 
Jerry: But… If you can leave, then why are you still here? 
Buzzcut Jerry: Same reason as you. *looks to other Jerrys for confirmation* …We’re Jerrys. 
Scene Action: (Jerry stands in disgust.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerryboree lobby] 
Scene Action: (Jerry is marching out.) 
Jerry: I’m leaving. 
Jerry-Sitter: Okay then, that was always allowed. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Gearworld] 
Scene Action: (The chase is still on. Rick stops his vehicle, and Gromflomite ships pass him, giving him a chance to shoot them. He drives off again and pulls out a gun.) 
Rick: Morty, take the wheel! 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty clumsily swap seats.) 
Morty: Whoa, whoa! 
Rick: Whoa! 
Scene Action: (Rick climbs into his seat as Morty buckles up.) 
Rick: Geez, dammit, Morty! Who taught you to fly this thing?! *laughs* Haha, I’m kidding, I know that’s on me. 
Morty: Um, Rick! 
Scene Action: (An enormous craft lowers down before them. At this point, the car is surrounded.) 
Rick: Shit. Well, I guess this is it. 
Fart: Morty, crack the window. 
Scene Action: (Morty open the window and Fart flies out, entering a gear policecar and entering the officer’s mind.) 
Fart: I wonder why Greg is always so critical of my girlfriend. 
Officer: Well… He’d probably like to have me to himself, that’s how friends are. 
Fart: Or does he want her to himself? 
Scene Action: (Fart induces an image in the officer’s mind of Greg having sex with his girlfriend. “Goodbye Moonmen” begins again.) 
Fart: The world can be one together / Cosmos without hatred / Stars like diamonds in your eyes. 
Officer: *anguished* My life is a fucking joke. 
Scene Action: (He crashes his cruiser, setting off a chain of destruction of police and government vehicles as Fart continues singing. Rick and Morty look on from the car, shocked.) 
Fart: Goodbye, moonmen. / You say, goodbye, moonmen. 
Scene Action: (The destruction beings to kill civilians of Gearworld.) 
Fart: Goodbye, moonmen… (Fart floats back in through the window and the song ends.) Alright, let’s proceed. 
Rick: Damn. Can’t blame that on the dog. …Talk about silent but deadly. I-I’ve seen some nerve gas but ga- th-this gas got some nerve! Haha, you know what I’m sayin’? 
Morty: *not amused* Are you done? 
Rick: I’ll let you know, Morty. Gone with the wind, am I right? If you don’t like that one, Morty, an alt on that one could be, like…if I said Gasablanca! …Alright, I’m done. (Morty starts driving.) Let’s get to the Promethean Nebula, so my grandson can finish savin’ a life! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Cross-temporal asteroid, customs] 
Scene Action: (Jerry walks through a set of sliding doors and gets in line, intent on finding a way back home. He approaches the window.) 
Garblovian: Ga-ga blahg blahg? 
Jerry: Um… Earth, please? 
Scene Action: (The alien stamps a ticket and passes it to Jerry.) 
Jerry: Um… Is this… Do I pay? 
Garblovian: Agah blahg-blah! (Jibberish continues as Jerry rushes away. Other aliens heckle him.) 
Jerry: Sorry! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Cross-temporal asteroid] 
Scene Action: (Jerry passes a homeless alien holding a sign that says “WHY LIE? WILL USE GLEMS FOR GLOOBIES!” He then spots a creature that appears somewhat like a small hairless dog.) 
Jerry: Hmm. Hmm… *hesitantly makes to pet the creature, but its face suddenly splays out in a tentacle formation* Agh! *runs away* 
Scene Action: (Jerry runs into an alleyway where he’s met by a shirtless Garblovian, holding out a cup.) 
Garblovian: Agah blahg blahg? 
Jerry: I don’t… 
Garblovian: *angrily* Agah blahg! 
Jerry: What do you want? 
Garblovian: *holds out cup* Agah blahg blah— 
Scene Action: (The alien suddenly explodes into bluish goo. Some of it gets on Jerry.) 
Jerry: Oh! *looks at self and begins panicking* Ahahaaaahhhhh…. 
Scene Action: (Two smaller Garblovians run up to Jerry, jabbering and holding out cups. Jerry runs away, and one drinks some of the bluish goo from its cup.) 
Jerry: *wiping goo off himself* Uhhh… Huhhh…. (Stumbles upon two fleshy alien creatures mid-coitus.) Oooh! *runs away* 
Scene Action: (Jerry now sits on a lone bench under a streetlight, looking around the alien world in obvious fear and flinching at strange noises.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Jerryboree] 
Scene Action: (Jerry walks back inside, hanging his head. The Jerry-Sitter smiles cheerfully. He approaches some of the same Jerrys from before. They’re trying to set up a television.) 
Tank-top Jerry: Hey, are you the one that left? 
Jerry: *single nod* 
Tank-top Jerry: I get it. It’s… uh… a hassle out there. 
Jerry: *suddenly less forlorn* Right? Who needs that? 
Other Jerrys: *to one another* Right? Not me. 
Paul: Oh-ho, not us! 
Jerry: Uh… Who are you? 
Paul: Oh, excuse me. Paul Fleishman. *shakes Jerry’s hand* Infinite timelines! In some of them Beth remarries. 
Jerry: …Geez… 
Paul: Don’t worry. I treat Beth very well, and I do not overstep my bounds with Morty. Every kid needs a dad, but there’s no replacing you. Hey, you wanna give us a hand with this? *gestures to the TV* We’re trying to figure out how to get the sound coming through the stereo instead of the TV. I-I-I don’t—It’s very difficult. 
Jerry: Oh. Uh, well, is there an Aux input? 
Tank-top Jerry: I tried that, but there’s two different colors. 
Scene Action: (Pans out to show several clusters of Jerrys also working on identical television sets.) 
Various Jerrys: Uh… There’s two different colors. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Promethean Nebula] 
Scene Action: (Dinosaur-like creatures eat plant matter in what appears to be a vast jungle. Rick’s ship flies into view. Rick is now behind the wheel.) 
Fart: The wormhole is seventy of what you call ‘meters’ what you call ‘north’ of what you call ‘here.’ 
Rick: Fine. Morty, take your fart to his hole and say your goodbyes. I’m gonna find some fuel and take a biiiig fat Morty. (Morty gets out of the car.) That’s my new word for ‘shit’ because of today’s events. 
Scene Action: (Morty and Fart head north, soon finding the wormhole.) 
Fart: Here it is. This should take me back to my kind. 
Morty: I’m gonna miss you, um, Fart. I’m really sorry your name became Fart. 
Fart: I will be back soon, Morty. 
Morty: *excited* Really? 
Fart: After I return to the others with this location, we will be back for your cleansing. 
Morty: Um… Cleansing…? 
Fart: Carbon-based life is a threat to all higher life. To us, you are what you would call a disease. Wherever we discover you, we cure it. You said yourself that life must be protected even through sacrifice. (Morty, shocked and saddened, begins to tear up.) You haven’t changed your mind about that. I can sense your thoughts. Morty. 
Morty: *wipes his eyes* Um… Before you go… Could you sing a… C-Could you sing for me again? 
Fart: Yes, Morty. *approaches him as “Goodbye Moonmen” begins, again set to a sequence formed from Morty’s imagination* Cosmos without hatred / Blinding stars of cosmic light / Quasars shine through endless night / And everything is one in the beauty / And now we say goodby— 
Scene Action: (The song is interrupted as Morty shoots Fart with the antimatter gun.) 
Fart: Morty… Why… Why? 
Scene Action: (Morty shoots him several more times until he completely vanishes, then drops the gun, crying.) 
Morty: Goodbye. 
Scene Action: (Rick is loading something into the ship as Morty returns.) 
Rick: So did you guys make out a little bit? Is he gonna send you a postcard? (Morty wordlessly enters the car.) Man, that guy hit the lottery when he crossed paths with you. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Open space] 
Rick: Morty, I know I picked on your core beliefs and decision making a lot today, but I am glad you insisted on gettin’ that fart home. You know, at least all the death and destruction wasn’t for nothin’, you know? *notices Morty’s detached, almost anguished expression* You miss your fart friend, huh? Well I’ve got a little surprise for you, buddy. While you were gone I found another wormhole with millions of beings just like him on the other side and they’re all coming to visit. 
Morty: *panicking* What?! Rick! No, you can’t! 
Rick: Too late, Morty. The hole’s opening. 
Morty: No, no, Rick! You don’t understand! 
Scene Action: (Rick farts.) 
Rick: Th-there’s a lot more where that came from too. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Jerryboree] 
Scene Action: (Our Rick and Morty enter the lobby, which is filled with Ricks, Mortys, and Jerrys.) 
Rick: Hey. *taps another Rick’s arm* Hey bro. How many people was your Roy responsible for killing today? 
Other Rick: None, we chilled at Blips and Chitz all day, ain’t that right homie? 
Other Morty: Darn right bro! Roy rules! 
Other Rick: Haha! 
Scene Action: (The other Rick and Morty leave with their Jerry.) 
Rick: *glares at Morty* Must be nice… Hey, Morty, there’s our Jerry. 
Scene Action: (The Jerry-sitter guides a Jerry toward them. He and Morty hug.) 
Jerry: Mm, I missed you. Hey, Rick. 
Rick: Glad you’re safe Jerry. What do you say we go home? 
Jerry: I’d like that. 
Another Rick: *holding a ticket* Hey, wait, do you have 5126? 
Rick: Uh, I’m not sure. Morty. 
Scene Action: (Morty pulls a ticket out of his pocket.) 
Other Rick: Uh, that’s a Blips and Chitz ticket. 
Morty: What?! 
Rick: Way to go, Morty. Eh, whatever. 
Scene Action: (The Ricks exchange Jerrys. Both Jerrys look uncertain and nervous.) 
Jerrys: Uh… W-wait, what? 
Ricks: Alright, come on, Jerry. 
Scene Action: [End credits] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Alien planet] 
Scene Action: (Various species of aliens are walking down the street when they stop and listen to an announcer’s voice.) 
Announcer: Are you tired of the same daily droll? Well, get on over to Blips and Chitz! (As he describes things, they appear on screen.) We got, uh… one game! We got a whole bunch of games here! Uh, we got chabos and flobos and you can shoot things! Get on over here and play the games! Use your Flurbos to get tickets! Roy 2 just got here! G-Get over here at Ch… Chips and Chitz! 
Rick: It’s the coolest place in the world! Hahahaha, I g- I get to be in a commercial! 
Scene Action: [END] 
Scene Action: Open Ext. Rick's Ship in flying through a planet's rings
Scene Action: (Morty is in the backseat, Summer is in the starboard seat, Rick is driving)
All: (singing) Love. Connection. Experience.
Scene Action: (Morty claps)
Rick: Yeah Morty
All: (singing) Come together. With love. connection, experience! [laughter]
Rick: It's my favourite song
Morty: Hahahahaha, yeah
Scene Action: (distress beacon alert chimes)
Rick: Oh yeah, distress beacon! [belches] Yeah baby!
Morty: You're excited about that?
Rick: The first rule of space travel kids, is always check out distress beacons; nine out of ten times its a ship full of dead aliens and a bunch of free shit!
Scene Action: [Rick makes a sharp turn]
Morty and Summer: Whoa!
Rick: One out of ten times its a deadly trap, but I'm ready to roll those dice!
Scene Action: [Trans. flying toward S.S. Independence]
Scene Action: [Trans. Rick, Morty, and Summer entering corridor]
Summer: Seems like something terrible happened here.
Rick: Yeah. Cha-ching. Oh yeah, if you find a room full of eggs, don't shy away from it, give one of them a shake. Those facehuggers are worth more than this ship.
Scene Action: (Rick is spray-painting a symbol on a closed door)
Morty: Uh, what's that?
Rick: This will make the cops write it up as a looting by the Korblocks.
Summer: That's horrible!
Rick: I hear you man, cops are racist.
Scene Action: (A door behind them opens with six crewmembers)
Rick: Oh, hey! You're alive! Thank God.
Female alien: Can you help us? Our planet was taken over by some kind of [pauses] entity! It absorbed the minds of our people!
Male alien 1: We didn't notice until it was too late. The people it takes over, they look like your friends, your family, your leaders, but they're not, themselves any more; They're part of It.
Rick: And how do you know it didn't get on the ship with you? Those two ding-dongs seem pretty calm about the whole thing.
Scene Action:    (Two male aliens are calm and not panting and standing apart from the other four)
Scene Action: (They screech after Rick points at them)
   Male alien with glasses: Hey! No, no- uurgh!
Scene Action: (Morty screams. The other four are assimilated)
Rick: Called it.
All six aliens together: Hello Rick. Long time no see.
Rick: Unity!?
Morty: Rick?
Summer: Grandpa?
Rick: Oh boy. Uh, these are my grandkids, Summer and Morty. Summer, Morty, this is uh, Unity. We sort of used to, uh, date.
Scene Action:    [intro credits begin]
Scene Action: [Scene's of life on Unity's planet are shown; S.S. Independence lands]
   Rick: Quite an operation you got going here Une. You're a whole planet now huh?
Unity : After we broke up, I spend some time wandering through space,
Unity : then I found this world,
Unity : where I was better able to focus on my passion for unification.
Summer: You mean stealing peoples’ bodies?
Rick: Summer, rude. Why don't you kids run off and play with Unity while Unity and I do some catching up.
Scene Action: (four aliens come over to Morty and Summer put a hand on their shoulders)
Summer: Ugh.
Morty: Wait! Rick, aren't these people going to barf into our mouths and absorb us?
Unity : You're guests here on my planet, you're free to be yourselves; I've never been good at disappointing Rick.
Summer: Well now I'm going to barf. Come on Morty.
Scene Action: [Trans. to garage; Jerry is rooting through shelves]
Beth: Jerry, what are you- what are you doing in here? 
Jerry: I’m trying to find our weed whacker, ‘cause our weeds are wack, yo.
Beth: But you can’t go in the garage when Rick’s not here. 
Jerry: I can’t?
Beth: Well, he doesn’t like it.
Jerry: What’s he gonna do, crash rent-free at his other family’s house? 
Beth: What is that supposed to mean?
Scene Action: (Jerry stands up and turns to face Beth)
Jerry: Your dad gets to walk all over us because of your abandonment issues! He’s playing you, shorty.
Beth: Oh, stop affecting that stupid hip-hop dialect! 
Jerry: Stop shifting the crosshairs to my ironic urban patois just because your relationship with your father is toe-up from the flow-up.
Scene Action: (Gurgling sounds come from below. Beth and Jerry look around)
Jerry: What the hell was that?
Beth: (whispering) I don’t know, let’s just leave! 
Scene Action: (More gurgling. Jerry removes the mat to reveal a hatch in the floor.)
Jerry: That is a hatch! Your father put a hatch in my garage! 
Beth: You don’t know it was him! [pauses] Anyway, we’re not supposed to be in here!
Jerry: Obviously, neither is whatever’s gurgling down there.
Scene Action: (Gurgling)
Scene Action: [Trans. to Unity’s planet: Rick is approaching a news stand]
Rick: World peace achieved. Nice! A little weird to publish a paper about it for yourself, but hey. So what’s next? 
Unity : After I become a type-one civilisation, this world will be invited into the Galactic Federation.
Rick: Oh, goody.
Scene Action: (As Rick walks, Unity switches between people nearby to have a flawless conversation without having to stop what they’re doing)
Unity : From there I’ll have access to countless planets and species. 
Unity : One by one, I will unify them, I will become the universe, and I will be what the single-minded once called a god.
Rick: [burps] I like that. Oh, that’s pretty sexy. Hey listen, where can I get a drink around here? 
Unity : Recreational substances were phased out here. There’s no need for escape from the self when your world is one.
Rick: Unity, Unity, who am I talking to? I watched you assimilate a whole police station just to get your hands on the evidence locker.
Unity : Rick, when we met I was a young hivemind with the population of a small town. People… change.
Unity : Especially when I change them. I’m sorry to disappoint you, but… I’ve grown.
Rick: Hey, listen, I’ve grown too. I have! See, I’ve- I’ve reconnected with my family, right? 
Unity : Hm, why is that I wonder? 
Rick: Maybe it’s part of getting old. Maybe I just miss being with… a collective.
Scene Action: (Rick and Unity start kissing. A crowd forms around them)
Unity : Yes Rick! Yes! Yes!
Rick: Oh yeah!
Unity : Yes! Yes! 
Rick: Wait, wait, stop! H-Hold it! Not like this. We need a hang glider. And a crotchless Uncle Sam costume. And I want the entire field of your largest stadium covered end to end with naked redheads! And I want the stands packed with every man that remotely resembles my father! 
Scene Action: [Trans. to a mountain being carved into the shape of Morty and Summer’s heads. Morty and Summer are being fanned and eating hamburgers]
Morty: Look at ‘em go! So coordinated! What’s your problem? They’re making you into a Mount Rushmore! They made burgers!
Summer: Morty, open your eyes! There is no they! These poor people’s’ bodies are being used! They’re a planet of puppets! 
Unity : I can hear you.
Summer: Ugh!
Morty: Well, seems like everybody here’s cool with it. Except for all those redheads. They seem like they’re in a hurry to be somewhere else. 
Unity : Balloon, Summer? Balloon, Morty?
Summer: No, we don’t want your dumb balloons. We’re bored. Take us back to Rick.
Unity : Now’s… not a good time.
Scene Action: [Trans. to Rick in a hang glider and Uncle Sam costume, flying towards a stadium]
Rick: Oh yeah! I want youuuuuu!
Unity : Go son go! Go son go! Go son go! 
Scene Action: [Trans. to Earth: Jerry and Beth are looking down the hatch, which is open]
Jerry: Oh! Real nice! Real nice! How does a man do this without me noticing?
Beth: Oh, you know my dad. Once he puts his mind to something…
Jerry: You’re spinning this to his credit?
Scene Action: (Gurgling)
Jerry: I’m going down there.
Beth: Jerry!
Jerry: Beth, this is my house, which makes this my garage, my secret hatch, my hidden subterranean lair,  and my faceless gargler. Now, are you going to keep hating this playa, or are you gonna jack my steed?
Beth: Okay, you’re just making stuff up now.
Scene Action: [Trans. to Rick, who’s walking out in a bathrobe, panting, to applause]
Rick: Oh my god. Oh my god. [Drinks water]
Unity : Oh Rick, it was so bad. 
Rick: What’s this ‘was’ stuff? I just need to hydrate and then we’re doing that again! 
Scene Action: (Beta-7’s spaceships arrive from skyward)
Unity : Oh damn.
Rick: Listen, if this is an invasion I gotta sit this one out, but I’ll- I’ll be back to have sex with the survivors. 
Unity : It’s a neighboring hivemind species, Beta-7. Our planet’s maintained a practical alliance for exchange of vital resources. (whispering) So be nice!
Beta-7: Unity. [pauses] Is it a… bad time? Are all… present lifeforms… assimilated?
Unity : Beta-7, this is my single-minded friend from Earth, Rick.
Beta-7: Rick… Sanchez. Unity has spoken of you.
Rick: All bad I hope. [laughing]
Scene Action: (Rick laughs and puts his hand on the lead Beta-7’s shoulders. All Beta-7 assimilated scream and point at Rick)
Rick: Whoa, Jesus Christ!
Unity : Beta-7, if my allies are a problem for you perhaps our alliance is as well.
Beta-7: Our alliance is beneficial. When Beta-7 expresses concern it- it’s only … be-because… 
Rick: Oh snap! Powdered neutronium? Amphetetron? You know what I can make with this stuff?
Unity : Oh… Rick, I- I shouldn’t...
Rick: Come on, it’s not every day that I’m in town! It- it’s for old time’s sake. 
Unity : Uh… Okay, what the hell! We can purify the resin and make fractal dust!
Rick: Oh, I was thinking velocitinis, but…
Unity: Aww, old man Rick can’t party with the whole planet? 
Scene Action: (Both laugh)
Rick: I can do whatever you do and more, baby.
Beta-7: Hrmm…
Scene Action: (Beta-7 leaves)
Rick: You know, I think Beta-7 over there is hoping your alliance can be more than practical.
Scene Action: (Both laugh)
Scene Action: [Trans. To Rick’s underground lair. Jerry is searching with a flashlight.]
Jerry: Well, this explains the six thousand dollar electric bill.
Scene Action: (Both see Blim Blam chained up to a wall and yell)
Blim Blam: [Gurgling] 
Jerry: Well. Nice. Real nice. Alien prisoners under the house. Real nice. Nice. Reeeal-
Beth: Goddamn it, stop.
Scene Action: [Trans. to Unity’s planet, Summer is in the street on a soapbox with a megaphone]
Summer: Wake up people! You have to fight it! You’re under the spell of an evil monster!
Unity : I can hear you.
Summer: Yeah! So you keep saying! 
Scene Action: (She starts slapping the man)
Morty: Summer!
Summer: Wake up! You have to have some individuality left in there! 
Unity : Why do you hate me, Summer?
Summer: I’m not talking to you! I’m talking to…
Scene Action: (She reaches into his pocket and grabs his wallet, and flips over to his license)
Summer: ...Steven Phillips! Steven! Set yourself free!
Unity : Summer, before I took over this planet, this man was a registered sex offender. 
Summer: ...Yeah, well so what? At least he was himself.
Unity : This woman was a drug addict on the verge of suicide. Now she’s a marine biologist. 
Morty: Listen Unity, I don’t think my sister’s trying to say that life would be perfect without you. I think she’s just saying that life would be… you know, life.
Unity : I have transformed life here into a paradise. Prostitutes are now scientists. The homeless are now phisosophers.
Summer: Oh, phi- phisosophers? 
Unity : Philophiluh… phiphophibup...
Summer: Oh my god. Where did you learn to talk you grandpa-stealing slut?
Unity : I’m feeling… urk!
Scene Action: (The man falls down and vomits. All other assimilated in the area follow suit.)
Morty: Oh man! Let me help all of you guys up!
Unity : I’m fine!
Scene Action: [Trans. to penis-shaped house. Various assimilated are dancing. Rick is on the couch drinking]
Unity : Do you know what I love about you, Rick? You’re the only single mind I’ve met who really sees the big picture.
Rick: You got that right. But… baby, listen. Y-you’re talking about taking over planets and galaxies, you gotta… you gotta just… remember to let go sometimes, you know.
Unity : I can let go! Hey, look! You see that town across the river? Watch this.
Scene Action: (Planes fly past and bomb the town, blowing it all up)
Rick: Whoa! 
Unity : Ha ha! Woot!
Rick: Whoa! That’s not what I meant! 
Unity : [laughing] It’s okay! It’s okay, I evacuated! I evacuated the town, look!
Unity : Hey! Right here! We’re fine!
Rick: [laughing] Oh, that was awesome! My grandkids weren’t in that town, right? A-are my grandkids alive? … H-hey, my drink is empty.
Scene Action: [Trans. to street. More assimilated are dancing, though they’re falling over and puking. Vehicles crash. Morty and Summer are running and almost get crushed by falling beams.]
Morty and Summer: Aah!
Summer: Unity, what’s happening? 
Steven Phillips: Who’s Unity? You kids have nice feet. Mind if I take a picture?
Summer: Gross, no!
Scene Action: (He takes a picture anyway and wanders off)
Morty: I think you’re getting what you wanted, Summer. Something’s happening to Unity.
Summer: Do… all of you remember who you are?
Ron Benson: ...Yeah. My name is Ron Benson. I’m… an electrical engineer. Father of two, and as you can see from my flat concentric nipple rings, I’m a member of this planet’s top race! [opens shirt to reveal ring nipples]
Summer: Okay, that’s good! Uh… Don’t focus too much on the last part, but...
Daryl Jefferson: I’m Daryll Jefferson. I’m a landscaper. And I’ll be damned if that ripple-nipple bitch’s race is superior! [removes shirt] The cone-nipple people will rule this world!
Ron Benson: You shut your mouth, you dirty knife-nipple bastards!
Daryl Jefferson: What’d you say to me, you target-chested piece of shit?
Alien man: Race war!
Scene Action: (The crowd breaks out into fighting)
Summer: Why are you fighting? Can’t you see you’re all the same?
Morty: Ah, Summer. Ha ha. First race war, huh?
Morty: Way to go, Summer. You started a race war. 
Summer: I didn’t start it! They’re the racists! I… I  merely empowered them to follow their apparently misguided dreams! 
Morty: Okay, thanks for clarifying! Y- I’ll have a super accurate headstone now! 
Rioter: Hey wait, what race are you guys?
Morty: [pulling up shirt] We’re neither! S-see? 
Summer: Yeah, take my word for it. We just have regular nipples.
Rioter: Hey! These two freaks have no race!
Scene Action: (Morty and Summer run, and get chased by a gang of rioters, before getting cornered against a wall)
Morty: Oh, there’s no place like home! There’s no place like home! Remember, Summer? 
Summer: Oh…
Scene Action: (The two hug)
Morty: From Dorothy and The Tiny People movie?
Summer: O-oh, yes, yes yes…
Morty: All the tiny people?
Summer: Dorothy, take us away! Take us away!
Scene Action: (As the rioters get closer, Unity (SWAT) drops in and surrounds the two, pushing the rioters back. An assimilated drops down and pulls the two into a hovercopter)
Unity : Hello Summer. Hello Morty.
Unity : It’s okay! You’re safe now. 
Morty: U-Unity?
Unity : Yes.
Summer: Oh, Unity I am so sorry. I didn’t know freedom meant people doing stuff that sucks! I was thinking more of… a choose-your-own-cellphone-carrier thing.
Unity : Oh, Summer, you did nothing wrong! I’m having fun with your grandpa! Lost a little control. Probably shouldn’t be piloting a hovercopter, nor should I be… running two hundred thousand pediatric hospitals and twelve million deep friers, but hey! It’s not like this planet can take its business elsewhere! 
Morty: Um… should we maybe stop somewhere and get you a coffee? Maybe splash a little water on your face, or…?
Unity : No, no, if I wanted to be sober, I wouldn’t have gotten drunk! Wooohoooo!
Scene Action: [Trans. to Rick’s underground lair. Blim Blam is chained up, Beth and Jerry are arguing]
Jerry: Oh man. I cannot wait. I cannot wait to hear Rick explain his way around this. He is gone! 
Beth: Jerry, stop! Please, okay, we weren’t even supposed to be down here. If we confront him about this-
Jerry: Oh my god! I love this! I love that this is how far you will go for him. You wanna go upstairs, and cut carrots, and watch a lifetime original, above a fucking alien dungeon! Your relationship with your father is psychotic!
Beth: Oh listen to you relish the idea that my genius father is a bad person! Step out of your ego for a second and look at this thing! It’s a monster! He might have it chained up so that it doesn’t eat the planet!
Jerry: Right, because your father’s such an altruist? I once saw him briefly forget the word for humans! He’s probably harvesting this creature’s organs!
Beth: He’s probably racing to cure its space aids!
Jerry: He’s going to eat it!
Beth: He’s protecting it!
Blim Blam: [Gurgles]
Both: Shut up!
Scene Action: [Trans. to penis-shaped house, now on fire. Summer and Morty enter.]
Summer: Unity! This place is a mess! 
Unity : Oh, it’s cool! The part of me that’s the cleaning lady is coming on Friday. [gasps] Oh my god! I have a meeting at the galactic federation in an hour. Oh, I’ll never make it! Ah, I’ll push it to next week.
Morty: Unity, could you get Rick out here please? 
Unity : He’s… unavailable! He’s-
Summer: Having sex with you, we get it! Gross. Get him out here now. 
Unity : I don’t think he wants to be-
Summer: (shouting) Grandpa Rick! 
Morty: (shouting) Rick! Rick!
Summer: (shouting) I’m gonna tell mom and dad about the gagoo you have locked up under the garage!
Scene Action: (Rick stumbles out, topless, wearing an ammunition belt, a mexican hat and pants, a fake moustache and clutching a bottle of beer)
Rick: What the hell… is your problem? 
Summer: Grandpa, we need to go home! Now!
Rick: Fine, geez! 
Scene Action: (He opens a portal)
Rick: See ya!
Morty: Uh, Rick? I think we should all go.
Rick: Tend your garden, kids, I’m kinda doing a thing here.
Scene Action: (He puts his arms around two assimilated, who cheer and laugh)
Summer: Grandpa Rick, we’re not leaving without you!
Rick: Oh my god [belches] you guys I get it. You’re afraid the big bad hivemind is gonna steal  your grandpa away. 
Summer: Actually, no. I think Unity’s great and you’re a horrible influence on it! 
Rick: What? 
Morty: This isn’t healthy, Rick! Y- you know you-you’re really up to no good around here. I-at-at this place,  you know? 
Summer: You and Unity are like… like… leggings and mid-calf boots. You think you’re great together but you’re just bringing out the worst in each other!
Rick: Oh, gee, boy Summer, well put. Uh, why don’t we see what Unity thinks. Unity?
Unity : I’m just taking a little break from stuff. You know? I need to relax. 
Rick: Oh, hey, wh-what’s this on the news, guys? L-l-let me turn it up.
Unity : In the news today, this looks a lot worse than it is. We’re… really just having a good time. Karen?
Unity : Thanks, Todd. Up next: Are you a concerned grandchild or just a buzzkill? We’ll tell you how you can really know for sure! 
Rick: I think you two are a little outnumbered. 
Summer: Okay! Well, what if you did it for me? What if you came with us as a favour to us… because you love us?
Rick: What? Dumb. Bye.
Morty: But Rick, Summer’s just-
Rick: Summer’s just a hyper-emotional, needy little- what’s the word I’m looking for here… uh- human! It runs in the family! I can tolerate it but I can’t give a crap about it. Take a hike. 
Summer: Take care of yourself, Unity. 
Scene Action: (Summer and Morty leave through the portal)
Rick: I’m not looking for judgement, just a yes or no. Can you assimilate a giraffe?
Scene Action: [Trans. back to Beth and Jerry]
Beth: You’re the worst!
Jerry: No! You’re the worst! You don’t support this family!
Scene Action: (The two start yelling over the top of one another)
Jerry: All you care about is yourself!
Beth: You think supporting the family is about supporting you emotionally...
Jerry: You’ve got two children being dragged across the cosmos...
Beth: ...but you’re unsupportable! Because it’s never enough, Jerry!
Jerry: ...by your dangerously ill father, and you force me to watch it happen!
Beth: It will never be enough support to satisfy you! And you don’t even know what it’s like…
Jerry: Because you’d rather lose them and lose me than lose him!
Beth: …to be afraid of losing anything because you cling and you cling and you cling…
Jerry: And why? Because you’re the child, Beth. You, not me, you!
Scene Action: (Blim Blam gurgles angrily and breaks free)
Jerry: Aaah!
Beth: Oh my god!
Scene Action: (Both back away. Jerry puts his arm protectively in front of Beth. Blim Blam moves past them and breaks into a cabinet, before pulling out an object and pointing it at the two like a gun)
Beth and Jerry: Aah!
Scene Action: (Blim Blam pushes the object into his neck)
Blim Blam: Um, first of all, hello. Uh, my name is Blim Blam the korblok. Second of all, cards on the table: I am a murderer that eats babies and I came to this planet to eat babies. However, I am also carrying a highly infectious disease, that I suppose you could call ‘space aids’ as you put it, and Rick did chain me up so that he could attempt to cure it. At the same time, Rick’s motivation to cure my disease was not to save my life or anyone else’s, but to patent and sell the cure for billions of blemflarks. But you know the reason why I ripped my chains out of the wall? And do you know why I’m never coming back to this planet? Because the two of you are the fucking worst! You both hate yourselves and each other! And the idea that it has anything to do with Rick is laughable! I’d laugh but I’m biologically incapable, that’s how alien I am! And even I’m sitting here listening to the two of you, and being like, what the fuck! So! Good luck with your shitty marriage, and I’m sorry that Rick has to deal with either of you. Blim Blam, out!
Scene Action: (He drops the translator and leaves, but quickly rushes back to pick it up again)
Blim Blam: You know what? I’m taking this.
Scene Action: [Trans. to garage. Summer and Morty have returned. Blim Blam pushes at the garage door but can’t open it]
Blim Blam: How do you- what is this?
Scene Action: (Morty activates the garage door opener)
Blim Blam: Uh, is there a slow setting? Best door ever.
Scene Action: (He leaves, flipping the two off with a penis-shaped finger)
Scene Action: [Trans. to Rick, who’s on the couch watching TV surrounded by several assimilated]
Rick: Aaah! [coughs] Okay, okay, now make him cry. But happy cry. Now make ‘em all make fun of the blonde one. Now make ‘em all do it on the table! I can’t believe you created a whole show for me. Now cancel it! Okay, now put it back on. Haha! [pauses] Alright, I’m bored.
Unity : Rick, is there a way for you to call Summer and Morty? I feel bad that they-
Rick: Pfft, screw those guys! Uugh, I’ll be right back. Don’t waste your brain on those weirdos, Unity. They’re no different from any other aimless chumps that you occupy. They just put you at the centre of their lives because you’re powerful and then because they put you there they want you to be less powerful. Never gonna happen though, right?
Unity : Never. 
Rick: Never! Back in a flash.
Scene Action: (Rick goes into the bathroom, and washes his hands and face)
Rick: Best weekend ever, Rick! I agree, Rick! Let’s see how long we can go!
Scene Action: (He goes back into the main room. Unity has disappeared, but there are letters everywhere)
Rick: Hey Une! You got any more-
Scene Action: (He picks up a note and reads it. Unity talks in a voiceover, using the voices of different assimilated for each part)
Unity : Rick, forgive me for doing this in notes. I’m not strong enough to do it in persons. 
Scene Action: (Rick starts wandering around town. The entire town is fil'led with letters. He picks up to read some as he goes)
Unity : I realise now that I’m attracted to you for the same reason I can’t be with you. You can’t change. And I have no problem with that, but… it clearly means I have a problem with myself. 
Unity : I’m sure there’s no perfect version of me. I’m sure I’ll just unify species after species and never really be complete. 
Unity : But I know how it goes with us. I lose who I am and become part of you. Because in a strange way you’re better at what I do without even trying. Yours, and nobody else’s, Unity. P.S. I don’t know where those coal miners were before they got assimilated. You might want to get checked.
Scene Action: [Trans. to the Smiths watching TV in the living room. Rick enters from the left]
Rick: Hey.
Beth: Dad… [clears throat] I… um… Jerry and I were looking for our weed whacker, and found your subterranean lair… and your alien prisoner. And… he got away. And I know I sound like mom but I can’t sacrifice this whole family’s safety just because I’m afraid you’ll leave again, so no more alien prisoners, and, no more subterranean excavation without consulting us. 
Rick: Okay.
Beth: ...Okay? Y-y-y-y-Okay like you’re gonna quietly teleport somewhere and never come back?
Rick: No. It’s your house. 
Summer: Grandpa Rick! What happened… with Unity?
Rick: Who? Oh. Unity. Yeah, well, I mean honestly we’re talking about an entity that thrives on enslavement, you know. It’s not cool. Fun’s fun but who needs it? I’ll be in the garage. 
Scene Action: (“Do you feel it?” by Chaos Chaos starts playing in the background. Rick enters the garage, looking depressed, and drains his flask before throwing it away. Then he pulls out two bulbs and puts together a metal contraption on the desk. He pulls a frozen alien creature out of the drawers and brings it to life with a flask of chemicals, strokes it while it shrieks helplessly, and drinks the rest of the chemicals. He puts one of the bulbs into the contraption and sticks the alien under it, disintegrating it with a blast of energy, then replaces the bulb and repeats the process with his own head. At the last second, he falls unconscious, dodging the killing blast. The screen zooms out through the open garage door, showing Rick slumped still on the desk through the night and into the morning, even as Jerry shows up, happily weeding the garden and the driveway without noticing Rick.)
Scene Action: [Credits]
Scene Action: [After Credits scene: Rick’s spaceship is outside Beta-7’s main ship. Rick is driving, with Morty in the passenger seat]
Rick: Unity! Unity! Unity! 
Scene Action: (A transmission comes in from Beta-7)
Beta-7: How can I assist you?
Rick: I wanna talk to [belches] Unity. Beta-7, I know it’s in there!
Beta-7: You’re classified as a hostile entity, and Unity doesn’t want to talk to you.
Rick: I know your game, Beta-7, I’ve met a billion of you, you little on-deck in-the-wind shoulder to cry on!
Beta-7: You are classified as a hostile entity. 
Rick: Well, you’re just loving this, mother f- this isn’t gonna shape out like you think, pal! Unity’s not into other hiveminds! It’s gonna suck you in and use you up and a month from now I’m going to be making out with all of you in a bunch of red wigs! Unity! Unity! Unity, I know you can hear me! Get out here!
Beta-7: Weapons systems engaged.
Rick: Oh, in your dreams you have weapons systems. 
Morty: Ugh, Rick, you said we were going to a movie. 
Rick: We are, Morty. Alright, Beta-shit-7, you just got saved by the bell, bitch! 
Scene Action: [Episode end]
Rick: "they're no different from any of the aimless chumps that you occupy, they just put you at the center of their lives because your powerful then because they put you there they want you to be less powerful. Never gonna happen tho right." 
Unity: "Never" 
Scene Action: "Rick, 
Scene Action: forgive me for doing this in notes, I'm not strong enough to do it in persons, 
Scene Action: I realize now that I am attracted to you for the same reason I cant be with you. You can't change and I have no problem with that but it clearly means, I have a problem with myself. I'm sure theres no perfect version of me Im sure I'll just unify species after species and never be complete but I know how it goes with us, I lose who I am and become part of you. As in a strange way your better at what I do without even trying, yours and noody elses' Unity 
Scene Action: PS. I don't know what those coal miners was before I assimilated, you might want to get checked" 
Scene Action: (Smith family is eating, Jerry checks his mail) 
Jerry: Steve, I just got a weird E-mail. Did you buy us airline tickets? 
Uncle Steve: Aw shoot, it was supposed to be a surprise! I wanted to thank you for letting me live here all this time, so I'm treating the family to a vacation! 
Beth: Steve, you're so sweet! 
Morty: Thanks Uncle Steve! 
Summer: Best uncle ever! 
Uncle Steve: Look out world, the Smith family is goin' to Paris! 
Summer: (Offscreen) Yeah! Awesome! 
Scene Action: (Rick enters the room, and dumps some very familiar-looking rocks into the kitchen trash) 
Jerry: Rick, I don't like glowing rocks in the kitchen trash. 
Rick: Well I don't like your unemployed genes in my grandchildren, Jerry. But life is made of little concessions. 
Jerry: I, you know what, I- 
Uncle Steve: You're gonna land on your feet Jer. Some company out there's gonna think they're lucky stars they hired my little brother. 
Rick: Who the fuck are you? 
Jerry: My goofy brother Steve. He's been living here almost a year now, are you losing your mind? 
Uncle Steve: Hey someone's been spending too much time around glowing rocks am I right? (Everybody except Rick laughs, Rick shoots Steve in the head) 
All except Rick: *unintelegable screaming* 
Morty: What the hell, Rick? What the hell? 
Rick: Everybody just relax for a second. There's no such thing as an "Uncle Steve". That is an alien parasite. 
Scene Action: (Uncle Steve turns back into his true form and dies) 
Jerry: But I've known him my whole life! 
Rick: No you haven't Jerry. These telepathic little bastards, they embed themselves in memories they use those to multiply, spread out, and take over planets. It's disgusting. 
Morty: Steve wasn't real? 
Rick: He's a real piece of shit! This is a big one, someone probably tracked in last week on the bottom of their shoe or on a piece of alien fruit. 
Summer: Someone? 
Rick: Get off the high road Summer, we all got pink eye because you won't stop texting on the toilet. 
Morty: But Uncle Steve taught me how to ride a bike. 
Rick: No, "Steve" put that memory in your brain so he could live in your house, eat your food, and multiply. We could be infested with these things, so we gotta keep an eye out for any zany, wacky characters that pop up. 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh wee, whatever you want Rick, we're here to help! 
Rick: Thanks Mr. Poopybutthole. I always could count on you. 
Scene Action: *theme song plays* 
Rick: Alright, there's six of us and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, and Summer. 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Maybe you got the first one in time Rick! 
Rick: Can't afford to chance it. 
Scene Action: (Rick presses a button on his watch, all doors and windows in the house are sealed off by blast shields) 
Beth: Dad, why does our house have blast shields? 
Rick: Trust me Beth you don't wanna know how many answers that question has. 
Poopybutthole: Ooh, gosh, it feels claustrophobic! Reminds me of that time we all got stuck in the elevator together. Y-- remember that? After "the hulk" musical? (Flashback, Jerry grunting, muzak playing ) 
Beth: Jerry, buttons don't work better if you hit them harder, and foam fists don't make you strong. 
Jerry: I know. Friends make you strong. I watched the same musical you did. 
Rick: Why couldn't I bring my portal gun? (Morty winces ) 
Morty: Why did all the drinks have to be extra large? Oh, the hulk. I just got that. 
Summer: Just pee your pants. I did it the minute we got stuck. Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, shame me. At least when I'm disgusting, it's on purpose. 
Poopybutthole: Oh, y'all, we're gonna be fine. I've always been here for you guys, and I always will be. ( chuckles ) 
Nicky: somebody call for repairs? 
All: Yay! Cousin Nicky! 
Nicky: It's me, cousin Nicky. I'm walkin' here! I mean, I'm not. I'm crouched in the elevator shaft, but hey, I'm walkin' here! ( laughter ) (Cut back to the present) It's true. We really do get into some crazy situations as a family, mostly when we're cooped up like this. Hey, maybe Mr. Poopypants is right. L-let's get some fresh air. 
Morty: Come on, cousin Nicky. You heard Rick. We have to stay quarantined until we know that there's no more of these things. 
Nicky: I hear you, Morty. Back in brooklyn, we got a sayin' -- "we're walkin' here!" ( laughter ) 
Jerry: Nicky! (Rick shoots Nicky in the shoulder, and he reverts back into a parasite) 
Nicky: Oh! ( gasps ) ( groaning ) 
Morty: What the...? Cousin Nicky was a parasite?! 
Rick: Six, Morty! There's supposed to be six of us! If there's seven, then that means somebody's not real. 
Beth: But how did you know it was Nicky? 
Rick: I guessed. That's why I aimed for his shoulder. 
Beth: So we can't trust any of our memories now? Nicky was the reason we found that old nazi submarine. Did that not even happen? 
Jerry: Well, of course it happened. 
Scene Action: (Flashback, Morty, Rick, Jerry, Beth and Nicky are tied up, a Nazi stands before them) 
Nazi: Now that I possess the mighty staff of Rah-gubaba, the world will tremble before the fourth reich! 
Morty: This is the last time I ask you for help on my history final, Rick. 
Nicky: Hey, we got a word for nazis back in Brooklyn, pal. 
Nazi: I'm comfortable being called a nazi. You think there's some other word that will hurt my feelings? (Hits Nicky on the head) Yeah. Think before you talk shit. Rah-gubaba, help me kill america! (Mr. Beauregard knocks out the nazi) 
All: Mr. Beauregard! 
Mr. Beauregard: After due consideration, I have elected not to retire. 
All: Yeah! Oh, thank god! 
Mr. Beauregard: Now, I believe someone has a final exam to attend. Set a course for Morty's high school. (Return to the present) Perhaps I'm biased, but if that story never happened, then I wouldn't still be the family butler. ( chuckles ) dare to dream. 
Rick: Wait. 
Summer: And if Mr. Beauregard wasn't our butler, it's safe to say the family'd be in a hell of a lot of trouble. ( laughter ) 
Rick: No! Don't flashback! 
Scene Action: (Flashbacks, Jerry has his head stuck in the staircase railing) 
Summer: You're just gonna make more swelling. 
Beth: Don't worry, Jerry. Just relax. We called the fire department. 
Jerry: You know they won't come here anymore. ( grunting ) (Mr. Beauregard pours marmalade on Jerry, all gasp ) 
Mr. Beauregard: Marmalade is served. (everybody cheers) 
Frankenstein: I guess I take back what I said about British cuisine. ( laughter ) 
Scene Action: (Rick, Summer, and Mr. Beauregard are having a pillow fight) 
Rick: Take that! 
Sleepy Gary: We're trying to sleep. 
Scene Action: (Morty is in the living room with Beth, Jerry, and Sleepy Gary) 
Morty: I don't want to go to the dance alone. 
Mr. Beauregard : Then perhaps, you shouldn't. 
Scene Action: (Mr. Beauregard appears, in a dress) 
Beth: Aww. Mr. Beauregard. 
Mr. Beauregard: Shall we, master Morty? 
Morty: We shall. 
Beth: Oh, wait, don't leave without letting photography raptor take a picture. ( raptor screeches ) ( camera shutter clicks ) ( cut back to the present, laughter ) 
Rick: Everybody stop remembering! These parasites are like bed bugs, and every flashback is another mattress. Look! There's only supposed to be six people in this house. 
Scene Action: But there's always been 10. 
Rick: No! Uh, the fact that I wrote this number down means that there's four parasites. 
Frankenstein: You sure about that, Rick? 
Mr. Beauregard: Begging your pardon, master Rick, but I seem to recall a great deal of confusion surrounding that number. 
Rick: All right, there's six of us, ( belches ) and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, Frankenstein, Sleepy Gary, Photography raptor, Mr. Beauregard, and Summer. 
Beth: Uh, dad, that's like 10 people. 
Rick: 6, 10, what's the difference? I just love the number 6 for no reason! Where's my pencil at? 
Pencilvester: Right here, Rick! Use me! 
Rick: Oh, thanks, Pencilvester! (writes the number 6 again) Yeah,I-I g-- I guess that is what happened, but I-I don't get why I would do that. 
Pencilvester: Everybody makes mistakes, Rick. Why do you think I have one of these? ( laughter, camera shutter clicks ) 
Beth: That's it. Photos. Hard evidence. (Beth scrolls through photos, becomes suspicious) You're not in any of my photos, Mr. Poopybutthole. 
Poopybutthole: Well, what do you know about this? You're not in any of mine. 
Summer: All I have are pictures of me and my friends from school. (everybody else stares at Summer) What? What teenage girl has pictures of her family? It's not like we're mormon or dying. 
Frankenstein: I will admit it's suspicious that Summer's only friend is a magic ballerina lamb that we've never seen. 
Scene Action: (Flashback) 
Tinkles: Summer! 
Summer: Tinkles! It's past my bedtime. 
Tinkles: ( giggles ) Not in never past bedtime land! Here we go! ♪ Summer and Tinkles ♪ ♪ friends with each other ♪ ♪ living in never past bedtime land ♪ ♪ no kitchen sinkles ♪ ♪ no little brother ♪ ♪ going to raves and waving our hands ♪ (Rapper rapping ) ♪ Summer and tinkle, friends to the end ♪ ♪ group text the whole crew, my mother... Friends! ♪ ♪ ketchup to the salt, salt to the fry ♪ ♪ "t" to the "inkle" with a capital "I" ♪ 
Scene Action: (Scene cut's back to Summer's Bedroom, revealing that she was only dreaming) 
Summer: Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! 
Gary: Summer, we're trying to sleep. 
Summer: It was Tinkles! Tinkes? 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Rick: That is su-- [belches] -- suspicious. We're always hearing about this Tinkles character, but we never get to – 
Tinkles: Hi, everybody. I'm Tinkles, and these are my friends. ( all sigh ) 
Summer: See, everyone? Tinkles is real. That means so am I. 
Scene Action: (Everyone except Rick apologizes to Summer) 
Frankenstein: I was on the wrong side of the pitchfork on this one. 
Jerry: Okay, look, we shouldn't need evidence or logic to know who's family and who isn't. I know who the Smiths are. I've known Beth since high school. And her husband, Sleepy Gary, is hands down my absolute best friend. 
Sleepy Gary: Thanks, Jerry. Beyond that, no offense to any of you, but all bets are off. 
Rick: Look, I'm not used to being this unsure for this long. I'm just gonna aim for shoulders starting with the weird girl. (Tries to shoot Summer) 
Summer: Aah! Grandpa Rick! 
Rick: Hold still, "Summer." 
Gary: Rick, that is my daughter. 
Rick: Oh, yeah? Well, what if you just think that, Sleepy Gary? I've known you for 15 years. Don't make me hurt you. 
Sleepy Gary: Rick, these are our family and friends, the people we barbecue with. Have you forgotten the barbecue? 
Rick: Wait, why would you want me to -- You're one of them, aren't you? 
Hamurai: Rick, you love those barbecues, Rick. You love them. Hai! 
Amish Cyborg: Remember it, Rick? 
Rick: Shut up, Hamurai! Shut up, Amish Cyborg! What is this? '90s Conan? 
All: Remember the barbecue. Remember the barbecue. Remember the barbecue. 
Scene Action: ( chatter ) 
Rick: You know what, Pencilvester? It took me my whole life to realize it, but I love barbecuing. 
Pencilvester: You're good at it, Rick. 
Rick: Watch me, baby. I'm like tom cruise from, um, "cuisine" or w-whatever that movie's called where he makes drinks. Yeah, check me out. I'm like tom cruise from "cuisine." ( chuckles ) yeah. Is that what it's called? "cuisine"? 
Pencilvester: Wow! Hey, everybody. Let's give it up for the grill master, Rick! Rick! Rick! Rick! ( all chanting "Rick" ) 
Rick: Wait. (cut back to the present, breathing heavily ) Noooooo! Shoot. Now look. It's like a "Where's Waldo?" page. Can you find me? Check out all these zany characters. We'll be right back after these messages. 
Sleepy Gary: I think you should put down the gun and we should get you to a doctor. What do you say we take down these blast shields? 
All: Yeah. 
Rick: Can't do that, Sleepy Gary. All right, everybody listen to me. I don't know if any of you guys are real, but this house has been infested with fake loved ones that spread through fake memories, and our planet will be destroyed if they get out. ( grunts ) 
Pencilvester: But Rick, even you have to admit you do tend to overreact to stuff. 
Scene Action: (Flashback) 
Rick: You guys, we got to hurry. I just got back from Walmart. They're selling Nintendo 3ds systems for $149.99 on sale, plus every time you buy one, you get a $50 gift card. Brings the total price down to $110 after tax. Now, listen, we can flip those sons of bitches for 230 bucks apiece easy! They're all limited-edition "Zelda" ones. Hurry! Hurry! Come with me! We can be rich, and we also all get to keep one and we can play nintendo games! Nintendo, give me free stuff. 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Rick: Okay, yes, I definitely remember doing that, but also, I would never do that 
Pencilvester: Don't overreact, Rick. 
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, a word? 
Sleepy Gary: Sure, Jerry. Rick, keep a level head, okay? 'Cause I'll tell you a secret about Frankenstein -- He's actually Frankenstein's monster. 
Scene Action: (Rick looks at Frankenstein, Frankenstein pounds his fist) 
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, m-my head is filled with memories of our friendship. I'm convinced that you're Beth's husband and I'm your friend, but if those memories can't be trusted, then... 
Sleepy Gary: Jerry, just say it. 
Jerry: Sleepy Gary, how do we know I'm real? 
Sleepy Gary: Jesus, Jerry. No, you're real. Hey, look at me. Now, I don't know which way is up out there, but I know us, and you're real, Jerry. Remember our vacation? 
Scene Action: (flashback) 
Gary: They're filming that new "Star Wars" movie down the coast. Should we check it out? 
Jerry: Sure. Why not? (Gary drinks, Jerry drops his bottle, both he and Gary reach for it) 
Gary: Maybe we'll see Chewbacca. 
Jerry: I'd like that. ( Kissing ) What are we doing? 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Gerry: I don't give a damn what else happens out there. You and I are going to survive this. 
Jerry: Okay. Hey, we agreed. Never in the house. 
Scene Action: (Transit to the living room, Rick is pointing the gun at random people) 
Frankenstein: That's a cool watch there, Rick. Can I check it out? 
Rick: Uh, no thank -- ( grunts ) Okay. Trying to figure out how to lower the blast shields, huh? Anybody here think it's suspicious that a lot of people in here can't wait to get out of here? 
Frankenstein: Ah, you're paranoid, Rick. You've been paranoid since 'nam. 
Scene Action: (Flashback) 
Rick: So, what are you gonna do when you rotate back to the world, Frankenstein? 
Frankenstein: Shi-i-i-i-t. I'mma bust a -- ( cut back to the present, Rick grunts ) 
Rick: No! Get out of my head, parasite! No! Drop it. Give me the gun, Frankenstein! ( indistinct shouting ) Give it back! 
All: Yeah! ( applause ) Frankenstein! 
Rick: ( breathing heavily ) Is anyone here even real? Am I the only real person on earth?! 
Reverse Giraffe: Maybe. Or maybe, just maybe, we're all real. You know me. I'm reverse giraffe. I have a short neck and legs. I went to college with Hamurai. 
Hamurai: Hai! 
Reverse Giraffe: I saved Ghost In A Jar's life in Vietnam. 
Ghost in a Jar: Boo rah! 
Reverse Giraffe: And Beth, how many times have I been a shoulder for you to cry on? 
Beth: ( sighs ) Too many. 
Reverse Giraffe: Okay, so maybe we're just all fake. 
Mrs. Refrigerator: That don't make no sense! 
Reverse: Giraffe: Or maybe, there's only one deceiver here -- The person that keeps telling us the path to salvation is being held prisoner and mistrusting each other. 
Rick: Hey, don't blame me! I tried to shoot Summer 10 minutes ago! 
Reverse Giraffe: I know we all have beloved memories of Rick, but are we really supposed to believe that a mad scientist inventor with a flying car just showed up on our doorstep after being gone for years? 
Morty: Yeah, you know, he does have a lot of really weird, made-up sounding catchphrases. 
Scene Action: (Flashback) 
Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub! Ricky ticky tavi, beyotch! And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes. Hit the sack, jack. Uh-oh! Somersault jump. Aids! And that's why I always say shum shum shlippedy dop! Grassss tastes bad-ah. No jumpin' in the sewer. Burger time! Rubber baby baby bunkers! Lick, lick, lick my balls! ( laughs ) yeah! Say that all the time. 
 All: ( muttering ) That's a fake-ass catchphrase right there. 
Beth: And don't forget his incredibly vague back story. 
Rick: Beth, I'm your father! 
Beth: Oh, are you, dad? Are you? 
Morty: Rick, if you want to prove you're real, just do what any of the rest of us would do and -- and -- and open the blast shields and let us the hell out of here! 
Rick: Why don't you make me, implausibly naive pubescent boy with an old Jewish comedy writer's name? 
Scene Action: (Everybody is surprised) 
Mrs. Refrigerator: In your face! 
Morty: Give me the gun. (Looks at everyone else) I'm not doing this in front of Pencilvester. Bring him to the garage. ( all cheering ) All right, you listen to me, you son of a bitch parasite scum. We could either do this the easy way or the hard way. You know, y-y-y-- do you want to live? Then open the blast shield doors. 
Rick: Shut up, Morty, you brainwashed, little turd that might not even be real because I'm brainwashed, too. 
Morty: You know, Rick, this isn't easy for us. You know, w-we all remember you as a friend. 
Rick: Oh, oh, oh, really? Well, I remember you as a whiny, little piece of shit, Morty! 
Morty: Oh -- oh, yeah? 
Rick: Yeah! I've got about a thousand memories of your dumb, little ass and about six of them are pleasant. The rest is annoying garbage. So why don't you do us both a favor and pull the trigger? Do it! Do it, mother[bleep] Pull the [bleep] trigger! 
Scene Action: (Morty shoots Baby Wizard, Baby Wizard screeches ) 
Duck with Muscles: Oh, wow. Baby Wizard was a parasite? He set me up with my wife. (Morty shoots the duck, parasite screeches ) 
Rick: What the hell? 
Morty: I figured it out, Rick! The parasites can only create pleasant memories. I know you're real because I have a ton of bad memories with you! 
Scene Action: (Flashbacks of times where Rick left Morty in depair) ♪ these memories that we have ♪ ♪ these memories that we cherish ♪ ♪ I wish that we... can go back... to that time ♪ ♪ ooh, ooh, ooh ♪ 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Rick: Holy crap, Morty, you're right. 
Morty: Is -- is -- isn't that what you were trying to make me understand by yelling at me? 
Rick: Well, yeah, duh-doy. T-took you long enough. (Rick turns the dial on the washing machine, the wall draws back to reveal a set of guns) 
Rick: Now let's go, Morty. We got a lot of friends and family to exterminate. ( grunts ) 
Scene Action: (Rick shoots a parasite, everybody else screams ) 
Morty: Everybody remain calm! This is gonna take some explaining. 
Rick: We need to kill everyone that we can only remember fondly. Who's got a bad memory about Mrs. Refrigerator? 
Mrs Refrigerator: I-I-I-I -- everyone has bad memories of me. You remember that one time? (flashback, Beth, Jerry, Mrs. Refrigerator and a lot of other people on a roller coaster, screaming, cut back to the present) Ooh, man, we couldn't stop screaming. 
Beth: Uh, roller coasters aren't bad, Mrs. Refrigerator. They're thrilling. And you've been a perfect companion to me my entire life. 
Mrs Refrigerator: The jig is up! ( whimpering ) get me out of here. Get me out of here! Aah! ( screeching ) ( all gasping ) Oh [bleep] 
Rick: Everybody back! If you're not a parasite, you have nothing to fear. What about Summer? 
Summer: Why am I always your go-to? 
Scene Action: (Flashback, Morty is hosing the backyard, Summer grunts and kicks him in the crotch, Morty whimpers ) 
Summer: Never go in my room again. 
Morty: I didn't! (Cut back to the present) She's real. She's my bitch of a sister. 
Summer: Nice. (Flashback) Mom, are you driving me to -- 
Beth: Hmm? Yeah, yeah, yes. What time? 
Summer: Oh, my god. Are you drunk? 
Beth: ( belches ) * slurring * What're you, my life coach? 
Summer: Your what? Oh! God! Oh. Oh, my gosh. Oh! God! Mom! 
Beth: Sweetheart, are you okay? I didn't mean to -- 
Summer: I'm gonna have a bruise! It's picture day! 
Beth: It's not, don't overreact. I can clean it up. 
Summer: ( sobs ) I want the police to take me! 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Summer: Morty, give a gun to the lady that got pregnant with me too early and constantly makes it our problem. 
Beth: Thank you, sweetie. 
Cross Teddy Bear: Beth, Beth, please! 
Beth: I thought it was too good to be true that we'd have compatible kidneys. (shoots the bear, parasite screeches ) ( guns cock ) ( screaming ) ( blasting ) ( screeching ) 
Rick: (Corners Pencilvester) Come on, man. Haven't we ever had an uncomfortable silence or an awkward fart on a road trip? Come on, Pencilvester. Give me anything. 
Pencilvester: Rick, I'm Pencilvester. Listen to that name. You can't kill me. 
Rick: You're right. (To Morty) Kill Pencilvester. 
Scene Action: (Morty shoots Pencilvester, parasite screeches ) (Summer shoots Frankenstein, parasite screeches ) (Summer shooting, parasites screeching ) 
Tinkles: Summer, I've always loved you! 
Summer: Yep. (Shoots Tinkles, parasite screeches ) ( all gasp, Summer shoots ) ( more screeching ) (Morty shouts) 
Scene Action: (Flashback, Summer walks into the kitchen and turns on the light, and sees Morty masturbating) 
Summer: Oh, my god! 
Morty: I-I-I thought you went to a concert! 
Summer: We forgot the tickets! Why in the kitchen?! 
Morty: I do it everywhere! Stop shaming me! 
Summer: You're not the victim here! 
Morty: I hate you, and I was thinking about your friend Grace! 
Summer: Aaaaaah! (cut back to the present, more shooting, parasites screeching ) 
Mr. Beauregard: Ah. Master Rick. Remember when you weren't going to shoot me? (Rick shoots Mr. Beauregard, parasite screeches ) 
Rick: I guess I did the butler! Ha ha! Does -- d-does that scan? 
Ghost in a Jar: Oh, I-I get it. It's a play on "the butler did it." 
Rick: Thanks, ghost in a jar. You always were good at pointing out potentially obscure comedy. (shoots ghost in a jar, parasite screeches ) ( screeches ) 
Jerry: You got to hide me, Sleepy Gary. 
Sleepy Gary: Don't worry. I have a plan. If we can get to my boat, there's a -- (Beth shoots Sleepy Gary, Gary slowly turns back into a parasite, screeches ) 
Jerry: No. No! Send me to Gary. I want to be with Gary. (Flashback, Jerry is running away from a hobo) 
Beth: Whoa. What the hell? 
Jerry: Look out for that homeless guy! 
Beth: Open the door! Open the door! Open the door! 
Jerry: There isn't time! Just run! 
Beth: ( grunts ) Get out here and help me! 
Jerry: They say you shouldn't do that! Just run! 
Scene Action: (Cut back to the present) 
Beth: Ugh. Sorry, Jerry. You're real. 
Jerry: ( crying ) I'm a parasite! 
Beth: Yeah, but you're real. 
Jerry: (tries to kiss Beth) 
Beth: Uh, uh, I need time to forget about Sleepy Gary. 
Jerry: Me, too. ( Rick opens the blast shields ) 
Rick: From now on, let's all be careful to wash our hands when we get back from outer space. That goes for everyone. 
Jerry: This is depressing. We killed every good person in the house. We're what's left? What a family. 
Rick: At least we're real, Jerry. We're real. Ricky ticky tavi! 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Ooh, whee! Amen to that. Now, this little poopypants is hungry. Will somebody pass me a pork chop? ( chomping ) 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Huh. I-is -- is something wrong, Beth? (Beth shoots Mr. Poopybutthole) Ow! ( screams ) oh, my god! 
Rick: No, Beth! Oh [bleep] 
Beth: Wait, but I -- 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, Beth! Why?! 
Jerry: I need an ambulance! There's been a shooting. My wife shot... Uh, my -- my wife shot a long-time family friend. 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Why? 
Summer: Oh, my god, oh, my god, oh, my god, Mr. Poopybutthole. 
Beth: I-I thought -- 
Morty: Keep breathing! 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oh, god. What's happening? 
Morty: Look at me! Look at me! Don't -- don't fall asleep! 
Poopybutthole: Is -- is this what bleeding to death is? Oh, whee. Is this how I die? 
Rick: Oh, geez! Oh, my god! 
Mr. Poopybutthole: Why would you do this? Beth. It's not supposed to hurt. I-I thought... ( siren wails ) Ooh, whee. 
Scene Action: (Post-Credits scene) 
Beth: Oh, he -- he's looking a lot better. 
Rick: Listen, Beth, don't torture yourself. I made a similar mistake years ago, but, you know, on a planetary scale. 
Beth: Is, um, is he mad at me? 
Rick: He's not pressing charges. I mean, that's got to be the "you shot me" equivalent of not being mad. 
Scene Action: (Doctor steps out of the room) 
Beth: Can he have visitors? 
Doctor: He'd like to be alone. He told me to tell you he's sorry you didn't have bad memories of him? If you love him, you should leave. ( door closes ) 
Scene Action: (Smith family walks out of the hospital) 
Rick: (Smiles) And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes. 
Scene Action: (A giant yellow head flies through space toward Earth. The Earth catches fire and land masses start collapsing as the wind picks up.) 
Scene Action: (A man takes a golf swing in the middle of the storm. A large piece of land drops out in front of him, leaving a large hole.) 
Man: Hey, golf is easy now! 
Scene Action: (The hole gets larger and the man falls in.) 
Man: Aahh! Golf is hard again! Golf is hard agaaaaaaain! 
Scene Action: (A news anchor in a raincoat, Terry, is downtown with people panicking in the background as the giant head stares blankly at Earth. A news title says “ArmagHEADdon?!”.) 
Terry: The view here is the same as yours, Jim. A giant head has entered Earth’s gravity, triggering climate change and natural disasters we thought were impossible for at least another eight years. 
Jim: (in news studio) Let’s not make this political, Terry. Do we know what this giant head wants? 
Scene Action: (Giant Head clears its throat, creating a large wind blast) 
Giant Head: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT. 
Scene Action: (winds pick up and the tides change rapidly with its speech) 
Terry: Jim, you heard *static* said, “Show me what you got.” 
Giant Head: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT. I WANT TO SEE WHAT YOU GOT. (lamp post falls over, Terry runs out of frame) 
Scene Action: (Rick turns off the TV, they are on the couch) 
Rick: Oh boy. Time to go, Morty. 
Morty: Uhh, where? 
Scene Action: (Rick puts on sunglasses) 
Rick: The Pentagon. I mean, not THE Pentagon. *burp* The lame one, here on Earth. 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty walk out of frame) 
Scene Action: [INTRO] 
Scene Action: (At the house, winds still blow strongly. Summer, Beth and Jerry are standing outside.) 
Summer: Is it God? If it’s God, do we get out of school? 
Beth: It’s not God, Summer. 
Jerry: She’s allowed to think it’s God if she wants, honey! 
Beth: Shut up, Jerry. 
Jerry: Ok… 
Scene Action: (Rick and Morty pull out of the garage in the ship.) 
Beth: Dad, what do you know about this? 
Rick: Morty and I are going to look into it. You guys hold tight. 
Scene Action: (they fly off) 
Scene Action: (Mr. Goldenfold arrives on a moped.) 
Mr. Goldenfold: Scary stuff, huh? Pretty freaky. Hi, I’m Morty’s math teacher. I’m also part of the street team inviting folks to the church downtown so we can pray together. 
Beth: How is praying going to help? 
Mr. Goldenfold: Ma’am, a giant head in the sky is controlling the weather. Did you wanna play checkers? Let’s be rational! I’ll see you at God’s house! (leaves) 
Scene Action: (Pentagon war room, everyone is arguing) 
President: Gentlemen, gentlemen, one at a time! Simon? 
Simon: SETI, NORAD, and every broadcaster on the planet are attempting to show this being what humanity’s got. String theory, world history, the human genome. 
Scene Action: (Nathan slams fist on table) 
Nathan: Have you tried sending it launch codes? Mr. President, what America’s got is 70,000 megatons of KABOOM-BOOM! And I say we show it right up this floating head’s ass! 
Scene Action: (Argument begins again. A portal appears and Rick and Morty step through.) 
Guards: Hold it! Don’t move! (they approach Rick and Morty with guns) 
Rick: Stay back! This watch turns people into snakes! 
Scene Action: (Guards stop and look at Nathan for approval. Nathan nods at them, and the guards aim. A laser fires at the guards and they disappear, leaving only snakes.) 
President: Stand down. Everybody stand down! I’m the leader of these people and I’m unarmed. There’s no need for any more snake-makery. 
Rick: My name is Rick Sanchez. This here’s my grandson Morty. (drinks from flask) 
Everyone: Hi, Morty. 
Morty: Hey. 
Rick: I’ve seen enough of the galaxy to know that what we’ve got here is a Cromulon from the Cygnus-5 Expanse. So you can forget about nukes, and you can forget about math. (points to viewscreen showing floating head) This head won’t go away until *burp* Earth shows them it’s got a hit song. 
Everyone: Seriously, that’s impossible, etc… 
Simon: You mean like Vivaldi? 
Rick: No, Frasier. A live performance of a newly-written, catchy, original song. The Cromulon feed on the talent and showmanship of less-evolved lifeforms. 
President: All right, all right. Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Change of plan, people. Get me Pharrell, Randy Newman, Billy Corgan, and The-Dream. (no one responds) The-Dream? He wrote “Umbrella” and “Single Ladies”? You people haven’t heard of The-Dream? 
Rick: You’re gonna wanna put them on that giant speaker system at your sonic testing facility at Area 51. 
Nathan: How do you know about that? 
President: For God’s sake, Nathan, the man turns people into snakes. He can use Google Maps. 
Aide: Sir! Pharrell, Newman, Corgan, and that Dream guy. They’re all dead. 
President: What? How is that possible? Do people just die when I name them? 
Aide: The Grammys, sir. There was an earthquake and all the musicians... (sniffs, holding back tears) All the famous ones, they’re gone. 
President: Dear God. 
Aide: Hold on, sir, just a minute. Ice-T survived. He’s inbound on an F-15, ETA two hours. 
Rick: Good luck, Mr. President. 
Simon: Sir, the magnetic poles are about to reverse. In two hours, there may not be an Earth to save. 
Scene Action: (Rick opens a portal) 
President: Sanchez! Are you a musician? 
Rick: I dabble, Mr. President. 
President: Get this man and his grandson on a Blackhawk to Area 51. 
Scene Action: (At the church, everyone is panicking.) 
Father Bob: People! Everyone! Remain calm! Every crisis of faith is an opportunity for more faith! When God deals you an 11, you don’t fold! You double down, and always hit on a soft 16. That means you, Jews. 
Jew: I beg your pardon, pastor, but the last I looked outside, it seems to be you that’s been dealt the weak hand. Jews rule! (no one responds) Nobody? Ok, tough church. 
Principal Vagina: Hi, Principal Vagina. The name’s real, possibly Scandinavian. I’m just gonna come out and make this pitch. The old gods are dead. F*** all previous existing religions. All hail the one true god, the giant head in the sky. 
Scene Action: (everyone reacts) 
Principal Vagina: Ah, di di di di. (to Bob) Bob, Bob, I get it. But unless this (holds up a necklace with a cross) can beat that… what have you done for me lately? (tosses necklace to Bob) So if you wanna excuse me, I’m going out on the sidewalk and dropping to my knees and pledging my eternal soul to the thing that literally controls the f***ing weather! (walks out) Outta my way! 
Pastor Bob: Ok, if sanity’s been restored to this assembly, I’d like to talk about the cost of repairing our new organ. Sally, the plate, please. 
Mr. Goldenfold: (holds up a dollar) Ohhhh, this is my favorite part! 
Scene Action: (Helicopters over the desert, subtitle “Nevada Desert: Restricted Air Space”. Rick and Morty are on a helicopter) 
Morty: Rick, are you really a musician? 
Rick: Who’s NOT a musician, Morty? 
Morty: Me! 
Rick: Yeah, not with that attitude. 
Jump Master: We’re in the drop zone! I’m the jump master! My name’s Jamey! With an E-Y! Go, go, go! (Rick slides down rope) 
Morty: B-b-but we don’t have a song! 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, Principal Vagina is on the sidewalk on his knees) 
Principal Vagina: Giant head in the sky, please forgive all that we’ve done. We’re sorry for increased levels of emissions and our racism. And of course, the amber alerts I keep ignoring on my phone. 
Scene Action: (At Area 51 speaker system, Rick and Morty slide down rope out of helicopter) 
Rick and Morty: WhooooOOOOAHHHH!!!! 
Scene Action: (They land on a stage with various live performance equipment on it. The yellow Cromulon is in front of the stage staring.) 
Rick: (picks up a microphone) All right, Morty, let’s get ready to do it! Why don’t you, uh, find a button on one of those keyboards and lay down some kind of beat? 
Morty: Rick, I think we need to cut our losses. We get our family and portal out of here! 
Rick: Morty! Good music comes from people who are relaxed. Just hit a button, Morty! Gimme a beat! 
Morty: Oh man, ok, all right, um… 
Scene Action: (Morty presses a key and a beat starts, Rick knocks over a mic stand and starts “singing”) 
Rick: Ahhhhh yeahhhhh 
Scene Action: Ya gotta get schwifty 
Scene Action: (Morty starts beating a tambourine in rhythm) 
Scene Action: Ya gotta get schwifty in here 
Scene Action: It’s time to get schwifty 
Scene Action:  (The President and Nathan are watching the performance on a screen inside) 
Nathan: Get… schwifty? What the hell is that? 
President: It’s our world’s best effort, that’s what. 
Rick: Take off your pants and your panties 
Scene Action: Shit on the floor 
Scene Action: Time to get schwifty in here 
Scene Action: I’m Mr. Bulldops 
 Nathan: Mr. Bulldops? 
President: Don’t analyze it, Nathan. It’s working! 
Rick: Take a shit on the floor 
Scene Action: Time to get schwifty in here 
Scene Action: (Weather starts to die down around the world) 
Scene Action: (At the church) 
Pastor Bob: And third-level donors get our all access family pass. 
Summer: Listen! The storm is stopping! 
Scene Action: (On the stage) 
Rick: Hey, take your pants off 
Scene Action: It’s schwifty time today 
Scene Action: (song ends) 
Giant Head: Hmmmm. 
Scene Action: (everyone at Area 51 waits in anticipation) 
Scene Action: (at the church) 
Principal Vagina: Please be kind to us for we are but tiny things with entire bodies stuck to your ground. 
Scene Action: (at the stage) 
Giant Head: I LIKE WHAT YOU GOT. GOOD JOB. 
Scene Action: (Giant Head flies away) 
Scene Action: (everyone at Area 51 cheers and celebrates) 
Scene Action: (at the church, everyone lifts Principal Vagina, “What do you know, he was right! Hooray Principal Vagina!”) 
Beth: Now hold on a second, let’s be rational about this. 
Scene Action: (everyone stops and stares at Beth) 
Beth: No, I’m… I’m just saying, we don’t know if there’s a cause-effect relationship -- 
Scene Action: (earthquake hits, Beth falls on ground) 
Beth: Oh, God, what’s going on now? 
Scene Action: (at the stage, Rick and Morty and Area 51 panic) 
Scene Action: (The Earth is surrounded by an energy field and disappears. Earth reappears in another galaxy with four other planets, a disco ball-like sun, and several different-colored Cromulons looking at Earth.) 
Scene Action: (At Area 51) 
President: What the hell happened? 
Aide: Mr. President, you’re gonna wanna see this. 
Rick: I think planet Earth has just been transported. 
Scene Action: (At the church) 
Principal Vagina: The head has left and sent its children! 
Beth: Holy CRAP! 
Scene Action: (everyone gets on their knees) 
Summer: Oh dear giant head, we apologize for that discussion! It will never happen again! 
Scene Action: (everyone starts murmuring prayers) 
Scene Action: (At Area 51) 
Simon: Sir, we’ve started picking up on a garbled signal. We’re decrypting it now. 
Scene Action: (screen gradually descrambles) 
Scene Action: (Screen shows different bands of different aliens on different stages. Dance music plays in the background as the Cromulon narrates.) 
Cromulon: WE ASKED THEM TO SHOW US WHAT THEY GOT. AND THEY DID. NOW WE’LL SEE WHICH OF THEM HAS GOT THE MOST. 24 HOURS, FIVE PLANETS, FIVE SONGS. BUT IN THE END, THERE CAN ONLY BE ONE. PLANET MUSIC! All participation is involuntary. Disqualified and losing planets are disintegrated by plasma ray. 
Rick: Uhh, it’s probably a bad time to mention it, but any astronauts you guys had in orbit are definitely dead. 
Scene Action: ACT 2 
Scene Action: (dance music plays, Planet Music opening shows) 
Cromulon: Welcome back to Planet Music! First up, let’s hear the latest song from planet Parblesnops. The Greebybobes! SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT. 
Greebybobe: Hold it, hold it, stop! Music isn’t about competition or captivity! If you love music, you love freedom. Let these worlds be free, please! 
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED! 
Scene Action: (plasma ray powers up and fires at the planet, blowing it up) 
Cromulon: There’s one every season. Moving on to planet Arbolez Meterosos. Arbolian Meterososians. SHOW US WHAT YOU GOT. 
Arbolian Meterososian: Ah two, three, four… 
Scene Action: (The Arbolian Meterososians play a very simple and underwhelming song while looking at the Cromulons for approval.) 
Scene Action: (At Area 51. Rick, Morty and Ice-T are in a studio with several instruments. Rick is playing a bass, Morty is poking at a keyboard, and Ice-T is in the corner. The aide comes in.) 
Aide: Rick, Morty, Ice-T. The timetable’s moved up. Earth’s on in six hours. 
Morty: Like we’re not already under enough pressure! (Morty flips a bowl of peanuts at the aide and it hits him in the head. The aide leaves.) 
Rick and Ice-T: Whoa ho ho ho ho! 
Rick: Geez, Morty. The guy’s just doing his job. Take it easy. 
Morty: Rick, Ice-T, could you guys take it less easy?! We’ve got six hours to come up with a song! 
Rick: Genius happens in the moment, Morty. (walks over to keyboard) 
Morty: Well, can we at least go get our family? You know, so we can take them with-with-with us if we lose? 
Rick: That’s planning for failure, Morty. Even dumber than regular planning. (presses a button on the keyboard) Balls. 
Scene Action: (Morty walks toward the portal gun) 
Rick: Morty, Morty, stop! Listen! There’s only so much charge left in this thing. If we portal home from here and back, we’re not gonna have enough charge left to get off-world. Get it? 
Morty: What?! 
Rick: Yeah, *burp* you see, I try to shelter you from certain realities, *burp* Morty. Cause if I let you make me nervous, then we can’t get schwifty. 
Morty: Stop saying it like it’s a thing! You made it up! 
Rick: Hey, Morty! Could you lick my… (Rick presses keys on the keyboard with the sample of him saying “Balls”) 
Scene Action: (The President, Nathan, and his aide are watching them through a window) 
Morty: Rick, cut it out! That’s not funny, Rick! 
Nathan: I’ve seen enough. These guys are one-hit wonders. 
President: And what’s your plan, General? 
Nathan: We still have the nuclear option. On my word, we can launch a nuclear missile at every one of those heads in the sky. 
President: Our planet’s held captive on a live game show and your solution is to shoot the audience? You can put your faith in nukes if we get through this, General. Until then, I’ll put mine in Rick and Morty. “Get Schwifty” was a jam. 
Scene Action: (in field outside church, everyone is dressed in robes wearing head hats. Principal Vagina is holding a homemade satellite on a stick with an earbud) 
Principal Vagina: Hello? Yes sir, yeah. Thank you sir, thank you. He says he’s proud of what we’re doing and hopes we have a great Ascension Festival! Happy Ascension! 
All: Happy Ascension! 
Scene Action: (Jerry is holding an ice cream cone, Beth looks unimpressed.) 
Beth: We should pack up and leave town now. 
Jerry: I think it’s inspiring that our community is coping with fear in a way that involves a festival and homemade ice cream. If you’d stop being such an evangelical atheist, you might start enjoying yourself. 
Scene Action: (Summer arrives wearing a head hat, holding two head hats. Beth double-facepalms.) 
Jerry: Whoa! Look at you! You’re wearing the hat and everything! 
Summer: Here’s yours! (puts hat on Jerry) Mom, do you mind if I cook dinner tonight? 
Beth: Yeah, sure. Wait, what?? 
Summer: I love you guys. You gave me life. And it’s the will of the many heads that all children honor their parents. 
Beth: Dinner sounds nice. 
Scene Action: (Ethan arrives.) 
Ethan: Pardon, Mr. and Mrs. Smith. Summer, are you coming to the Ascension? 
Summer: Father, can we please go to the Ascension? 
Jerry: Sure! Let’s go to the Ascension. Wh-wh-what is it? 
Scene Action: (Three people are each tied to a bunch of balloons, tethered to a stake in the ground. One is labeled “Thief”, another labeled “Goth”, and the third labeled “Movie Talker”.) 
Principal Vagina: We hereby send these un-wantables skyward that they might be inhaled by the many heads, later to be sneezed back to us as better babies! (cuts first rope) Headward, free now to rise. (cuts second rope) Headward, free now to rise. (cuts third rope) Headward, free now to rise. 
Summer: Oh yes, yes! Rise to the giant head! You are free to be free! 
Scene Action: (in the studio) 
Ice-T: A squeegee comes up from the garage, right? And he’s got a lobster in one hand and movie tickets in the other. He’s like, “I’m ready!” 
Scene Action: (Rick and Ice-T laugh) 
Ice-T: Who would take a lobster to see Iron Man 3? 
Scene Action: (Rick and Ice-T laugh) 
Ice-T: Aw, damn. We’re out of original flavor Fig Newtons. I should get going anyway. 
Rick: Wait, wait, wait! Come on, h-hold on a second! 
Scene Action: (Rick grabs the portal gun, hits a couple buttons, makes a portal in the floor and drops through it. Another portal appears in the ceiling and Rick drops out of it with several snacks.) 
Morty: What?! 
Ice-T: Damn. You didn’t tell me you f*** around with portals and shit. 
Morty: That’s it! 
Scene Action: (Morty grabs the portal gun and gets up.) 
Rick: Whoa, whoa! Morty! Give me that! 
Morty: You lied! You lied about the charge! You were just being lazy! Get back! Sit down! 
Rick: Morty, just put it down. You don’t know what you’re doing. 
Scene Action: (Morty turns to a wall and fires a portal.) 
Morty: I’m going to go find Mom and Dad. 
Rick: Nooooo! 
Scene Action: (Morty jumps through the portal and Rick tries to grab him, but the portal closes.) 
Rick: Ahhhh, sh**! 
President: Ah, sh**. 
Scene Action: (Morty steps through different portals to different worlds, ending up in Buttworld.) 
Morty: Ahhh, sh**. 
Scene Action: (Outside of the Smiths’ home, Summer, Beth and Jerry are hoeing the front yard.) 
Summer: And then Ethan played guitar and we learned the Seven Contemplations of the Head by singing them. It was really fun. Praise be the head! 
Jerry and Beth: Praise be the… 
Jerry: Yeah. 
Scene Action: (Principal Vagina arrives on a bicycle with a seat, bell ringing.) 
Principal Vagina: Hi folks, Head Priest Vagina. Thanks for farming all those potatoes. It’s 6 p.m., so if you’re a parent, you’re now entitled to adoration from your children. 
Summer: I’m going to start dinner! (walks into the house) 
Beth: I don’t know what to say. Summer is doing really well here. 
Jerry: She’s aced every test in potato class, and look how important potatoes have become. 
Scene Action: (Someone tied to balloons floats by in the background with label “Inappropriate Joke Teller”.) 
Beth: She’s not getting pregnant or doing drugs or missing curfew… 
Balloon Man: Please help me! You can reach me if you try. Please help me!! 
Beth: That’s not our business as long as Summer is thriving! 
Scene Action: (Inside the Smiths’ house, Summer serves dinner at the table.) 
Summer: Taco time! (Summer pulls off the lid to reveal exactly 12 tacos.) I hope it pleases you as the head desires. 
Beth: That’s wonderful, Summer! 
Jerry: We’re so proud of you. But honestly, you don’t have to make dinner every night. 
Summer: Of course I do, silly! (gasps and drops lid) Oh my God, daddy, I’m sorry I called you silly! I’m so sorry! (turns around and drops to knees) Heavenly head and cranial creator! Forgive my transgressions against family and community! May my chores complete me as I complete them! 
Scene Action: (Summer sulks out of the dining room and up the stairs.) 
Scene Action: (Morty stumbles out of a portal on a green world and collapses to the ground holding the portal gun. A figure looms over Morty, pokes him with a stick, then rolls him over.) 
Birdperson: Morty. 
Morty: Birdperson? 
Birdperson: You appear to be dying. I will make efforts to prevent this, but can promise nothing. 
Scene Action: (In the studio, Rick plays with the keyboard and Ice-T is in the corner on his phone.) 
Rick: Wh-What do you think, Ice? Probably a little over-developed. 
Ice-T: Shit. Over-developed, under-developed. Bad songs are bad songs. 
Rick: Well, do you think maybe, could you give me some help with it, or… ? 
Ice-T: Ah, hell no, man. You do your thing, but I can’t afford to get my pride wrapped up in your shame. You know what I’m sayin’? 
Rick: Ice, I don’t want to be a negative Nelly or anything, but *burp* if Morty doesn’t come back with my portal gun and I eat it out there, it’s, uh, kind of your problem too. 
Ice-T: Pfff. I ain’t worried about no Earth blowin’ up, man. 
Rick: What? Why not? 
Ice-T: Yo, this is why. 
Scene Action: (Ice-T transforms into a floating ice shard with the same face.) 
Rick: What the f***? You can turn into ice? 
Ice-T: My story begins at the dawn of time in the far away realm of Alphabetrium. There, every being is a letter of the alphabet. But I was frozen and exiled to the cosmos by my elders as punishment for not caring enough about anything. Earth is just one of the many stops on my lifelong journey with no destination. So you better believe I don’t care if it blows up! Cause I’ll just be ice, floatin’ through space, like a comet! 
Rick: Take it from me, Ice. *burp* You can’t just *burp* float around space not caring about stuff forever. 
Ice-T: Pshhhh. Man, watch me. Good luck, Rick. 
Scene Action: (Ice-T blasts out of the ceiling of the studio.) 
President: Ok, things are getting out of hand. I better make sure Rick has everything he needs to “get schwifty.” 
Nathan: Oh, for God’s sake, that’s enough. 
Scene Action: (Nathan pulls a gun on the President) 
President: What the hell are you doing, Nathan? I’m the goddamn President of the United f***in’ States! 
Nathan: I’m setting the nuclear option to launch one minute into Earth’s performance. And you, Mr. President, I hope you like being hit in the face with a gun! 
President: Wait, wait, wait, why-why -- 
Scene Action: (Nathan pistol-whips the President and he falls to the ground.) 
Scene Action: (At Birdperson’s residence, Birdperson serves Morty a bowl of food and tinkers with the portal gun.) 
Birdperson: I believe I can access the history of Rick’s gun and help you get back to him. 
Morty: But can you help me get to my family? You know, at my house? 
Birdperson: Is your intention to abandon Rick using his own portal gun? In bird culture, this is considered a dick move. 
Morty: All of Rick’s moves are dick moves! Wh-what am I eating? What is this, bird seed? 
Birdperson: It is random debris. I found it in my carpet. I don’t know what humans eat. 
Scene Action: (Tammy arrives wearing a bathrobe.) 
Tammy: You know what THIS human eats! 
Birdperson: Don’t be gross, Tammy. 
Tammy: (leans over to Morty and whispers) Bird… d***. 
Morty: Tammy… gross. Birdperson, you always stick up for Rick, but he doesn’t care about anyone but himself. He doesn’t think about the consequences of anything he does. 
Birdperson: And as a result, he has the power to save or destroy entire worlds. And he is the reason you and I know each other. And the reason I’m alive at all. 
Scene Action: (Birdperson points to a wall of photos of himself and Rick together. Last shown is Rick holding a baby.) 
Morty: What’s that? Who’s that baby? 
Birdperson: Morty, suppose you could retrieve your family from Earth but had to abandon Rick. I could give your loved ones shelter on Birdworld, even jobs, possibly as worm ranchers. How often do you think you might look up at the stars and wonder what might have been had you just put your faith in Rick? 
Scene Action: (Morty stands in thought for a moment. Planet Music starts back up on the TV.) 
Cromulon: That was Chunky Tunk with “Full Ming Mong, Empty Gorp Dorp.” Up next, planet Earth! 
Morty: Oh God! We’re up?!?! 
Scene Action: (At the church, Principal Vagina and other priests are talking with Jerry and Beth.) 
Principal Vagina: Jerry and Beth, your family is a golden example of what Headism has to offer the world. 
Beth: The world? 
Principal Vagina: Headism is a hit. We’re taking it worldwide and would like Jerry to be our church’s “Head” of Advertising. 
Jerry: You… would? 
Principal Vagina: Beth, we’d like to promote you from horse surgeon, straight past human surgeon, to “Head” of Medicine. 
Beth: That’s my dream! That’s my dream. 
Jerry: Thank you. This is all so overwhelming, but, uh… we can’t. 
Beth: Absolutely not. 
Principal Vagina: I’m sorry? 
Beth: We’ve been waiting 16 years for our daughter to respect us, but the key is, it has to be “our” daughter, not this person she’s become. 
Jerry: We’ll take our chances raising her without fancy new jobs outside of a potato-based religion. (turns and puts his hands on Beth’s shoulders) And you know what? I’m sick of pretending that we’re together because of the kids in the first place! I married you because you’re the love of my life! 
Beth: (puts her hands on Jerry’s sides) And I‘m lucky to have you and I never tell you that! You know, we will come out of this stronger as a family! 
Scene Action: (Cut: Summer has tied Beth and Jerry to ropes and balloons outside.) 
Beth: Please don’t do this, please don’t do this! Summer! 
Jerry: Summer, listen carefully. I stole a paper clip and I have it in my cheek but I don’t know what to do with it and it hurts. 
Summer: You’re going to be ok! (ties another balloon to them) You will come back as babies! 
Jerry: I AM a baby! I’m a baby NOW! 
Scene Action: (In the now empty studio, a portal opens up and Morty steps through.) 
Morty: Hello? Is anybody here? (looks through the studio window and sees the President tied up) Mr. President! 
Scene Action: (Morty darts out of the studio to the President and unties him. The President climbs up to the console and presses a button) 
President: This is Bluebird. Code tango-niner-alpha. Abort launch. Abort! Hello? (releases button) He’s blocked me out. 
Morty: Sir, I need to get to the stage and help Rick get schwifty! 
President: It won’t matter how schwifty you get, Morty. The General’s got nukes set to launch halfway through Earth’s song! 
Morty: Oh my God! C-c-can you fly a Blackhawk? 
President: Can the Pope’s d*** fit through a donut? 
Morty: Uhhh, I’m not sure? 
President: Exactly! 
Scene Action: (On the stage, Rick stands before the Cromulons.) 
Cromulon: SHOW ME WHAT YOU GOT. 
Rick: Ahem. (starts a low-key, bouncy song) Uhhh… lop-oo-lop-oo-lop-oo-dups, nop-oo-nop-oo-nop-oo-nuts. 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, Principal Vagina is preparing to cut Beth and Jerry loose. The Cromulons' faces become angry.) 
Principal Vagina: Headward free now to rise! 
Mr. Goldenfold: Hey! Look at the heads! Looks like the heads are gettin’ angry! 
Scene Action: (In the desert, the President flies the helicopter clumsily to the stage with Morty in tow.) 
President: I’m really bad at this, Morty! There are way too many buttons on this thing! 
Morty: Mr. President, if I’ve learned one thing today, it’s that sometimes, you have to not give a f***! 
Scene Action: (On the stage, Rick continues his song.) 
Rick: Nup-oo-nup-oo-nup-oo-nups… ooh, tough crowd. 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, Principal Vagina is preparing to cut Beth and Jerry loose.) 
Principal Vagina: I’m sure that has… that has nothing to do with this. 
Scene Action: (Principal Vagina cuts the rope and the Cromulons immediately start booing.) 
Summer: The heads are displeased! (She jumps and grabs Beth and Jerry’s legs.) 
Ethan: Summer! (He jumps and grabs her.) 
Scene Action: (On the stage Rick continues his song as the Blackhawk arrives. Morty and the President slide down ropes out of the helicopter onto the stage.) 
Rick: Morty! 
Scene Action: (The Cromulons begin cheering with “Yay!” and “Hooray!” etc. with smiles on their faces. The now unmanned helicopter crashes off frame.) 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, Summer and Ethan are pulling Beth and Jerry down to the ground.) 
Mr. Goldenfold: The heads love this! They love it when we DON’T kill the Smith family! 
Scene Action: (The balloons are released, but Beth and Jerry are still tied up.) 
Principal Vagina: No! Stop that! You’re not allowed to interpret the will of the heads! 
Scene Action: (On the stage, the President grabs the microphone and speaks to the control room staff.) 
President: Call off the nuclear strike! This is the President. Stop the nuclear missile launch! 
Nathan: Just launch the missiles! 
Scene Action: (Nathan smashes a button and two nuclear missiles emerge from the ground in the desert. The Cromulons watch as the missiles fly toward the yellow Cromulon and lay puny explosions on its chin.) 
Cromulon: BOO! NOT COOL! 
Scene Action: (Outside the church) 
Principal Vagina: I’m the only one that speaks to the heads! 
Scene Action: (Cromulon zooms in close to Earth) 
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED! 
Mr. Goldenfold: The heads disqualified Vagina! Get him! 
Scene Action: (The mob runs toward Principal Vagina. The Cromulon zooms closer.) 
Scene Action: (On the stage) 
Cromulon: DISQUALIFIED! DISQUALIFIED! 
Scene Action: (The plasma ray points toward Earth and begins powering up. The control room staff evacuates. The plasma ray heads right for the stage but something flies in the way and blocks it.) 
All: Ice-T? 
Scene Action: (Ice-T slowly crumbles from the plasma ray’s power) 
Ice-T: That’s right, it’s me, Ice-T! I care now! You made me care more! With all due respect, I’d like to hear what Rick and Morty have to play. 
Morty: What do you say, Rick? 
Rick: I say… (grabs mic) Let’s do it! 
Scene Action: (Morty presses a button on the keyboard and a different beat starts playing. The heads start with “Hooray” etc while smiling. Rick claps over his head and Morty dances a little.) 
Rick: All right! 
Morty: Ohhhh yeahhhh! 
Rick: Come on, here we go! 
Morty: Ohhhh yeahhhh! 
Rick: Say it with me! 
All: Head bent over 
Scene Action: Raised up posterior 
Scene Action: Head bent over (ahh yeah) 
Scene Action: Raised up posterior 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, Principal Vagina is ties up with balloons and rope. A different person cuts the rope. Vagina sees the heads smiling as he rises.) 
Principal Vagina: Ohhh my GOOOOODDDD!!! 
Scene Action: (On the stage) 
All: Head bent over (yeah) 
Scene Action: Raised up posterior (oh yeah) 
Scene Action: Head bent over (oh yeah) 
Scene Action: (Raised up posterior!) 
Cromulon: After 988 seasons of Planet Music, the Cromulons have decided to declare Earth the final winner and bring our musical reality show to a conclusion. Goodbye! 
Scene Action: (Earth is transported back to the right place.) 
All: Yeah, we did it! 
Scene Action: (Outside the church, everyone is still and silent.) 
Mr. Goldenfold: Did he just say “musical reality show”? 
Jerry: Yeah, it’s possible that we may have been correlating some things that weren’t actually related at all. 
Scene Action: (Principal Vagina floats by in the background.) 
Principal Vagina: HEEEEELLLLPPPP!!!!! 
Beth: We should go get him. 
Scene Action: (At Area 51, everyone is celebrating. The President shakes hands with Morty.) 
President: I hope I can call on you again if we need you, Morty. 
Morty: Sure thing! And I was kinda hoping that I could get a selfie with you? 
Scene Action: (The President waves over Secret Service.) 
President: Actually, if you try to tell anyone what happened here, we’ll deny it and probably worse. 
Scene Action: (A Secret Service agent grabs Morty’s phone and snaps it in half.) 
Morty: Understood. 
Scene Action: (Nathan runs toward them with a gun.) 
Nathan: DIIIIEEEE!!!! 
Scene Action: (He is hit with an energy blast from Rick and disappears.) 
President: Why didn’t he turn into a snake? 
Rick: Trade secret, Mr. President. Particle beam in a wristwatch… snake holster on the leg. 
Scene Action: (He pulls up his pant leg to reveal a holster which a snake crawls out of. The snake slithers away and a soldier whistles impressed. The President begins laughing and hugs Rick.) 
President: I love this man! 
Scene Action: [CREDITS] 
Scene Action: (On Alphabetrium, Ice-T enters a great hall containing his elders: a grey J, a gaseous F with a female face, and a Q made of lava. All three are holding different scepters.) 
Ice-T: Magnesium-J, Hydrogen-F. Father. 
Magnesium-J: Word of your selfless acts on the Earth planet have travelled across the galaxy. 
Ice-T: I have changed. I am ready to rejoin my brethren on Alphabetrium. 
Magnesium-J: Very well. Your exile ends today! 
Scene Action: (All three press their scepters on the ground and the scepters glow. The beams form another beam that hits Ice-T and transforms him into a letter T made of water.) 
Magnesium-J: Welcome home... Water-T. 
Scene Action: (The hall shakes and begins falling apart.) 
Purple-P: The Numbericons! They’re attacking! 
Magnesium-J: Battle stations! 
Scene Action: (A piece of the building falls on Magma-Q. Water-T runs over to him.) 
Water-T: Father! 
Magma-Q: I love you son. I should have never turned you to ice. (He dies.) 
Scene Action: (Water-T produces a pistol on each T-end and begins walking out.) 
Magnesium-J: Water-T, where are you going? There’s too many of them! 
Scene Action: (A dramatic zoom to Water-T’s face.) 
Water-T: Then I better crunch the numbers. 
Scene Action: (Water-T bursts out of the door shooting at several Numbericons. The frame freezes mid-action and we hear gunshots and screaming. A title appears: “This summer: Water-T And The Rise Of The Numbericons.”) 
Scene Action: [END] 
Scene Action: walking away from Egan Cinema 
Morty: Geez, I can't believe we found a version of Earth with a Ball Fondlers movie franchise. 
Summer: I can't believe the things this reality considers PG-13 
Morty: Yeah, I'm pretty jealous. 
Rick: Don't be Morty, there are pros and cons to every reality, fun facts about this one; it's got giant telepathic spiders, eleven 9/11's, aaaand the best ice cream in the multiverse! 
Summer: Shut up! Morty: W-whoa! 
Rick: We're gonna go get some ice-cream motherfuckers! 
Scene Action: car does not start 
Rick: Oh great. 
Morty: Oh boy. W-what's wrong Rick, is it the quantum carburettor or something? 
Rick: Quantum carburettor? Jesus Morty; you can't just add a sci fi word to a car word and hope it means something. Huh, it looks like something's wrong with the microverse battery - we're going to have to go inside. 
Morty: Uhm. Go inside what? 
Rick: The battery Morty. Be right back Summer; stay put, don't touch any buttons, and ignore all random thoughts that feel -- spider-y. 
Summer: Wait! You can't leave me here! 
Rick: You'll be fine. Ship, keep Summer safe. 
Ship: Keep. Summer. Safe. 
Summer: Egh, wonderful. 
Scene Action: Man with scar across his face and a ponytail approaches the car 
Man: Hey, excuse me, hello? 
Summer: Uhmm... 
Man: What you think you're better than me? Nobody's better than me! Ey! ey! 
Scene Action: He is banging on the ship's window; the ship extends an arm from the back and cuts him into cubes with a laser 
Summer: Agh! Aghaaaa! 
Ship: Keep. Summer. Safe. 
Thinner Man: Hey man, what the hell! That was my daughter's paediatrician! Uagha! 
Scene Action: the ship lifts him off the ground with an arm and prepares to kill him with another 
Summer: No! Stop, don't kill him! 
Scene Action: ship beeps 
Ship: Confirmed. 
Scene Action: ship fires a single red laser into his back, and drops him to the ground 
Thinner Man: Uaghuu. Ugh. Uh. Oh God! I can't feel my legs! Help! He-elp! 
Ship: Summer is safe. 
Scene Action: Summer curls into fetal position and starts crying 
Summer: I don't feel safe. 
Ship: Confirmed. 
Scene Action: ship reclines chair and begins playing soothing music 
Scene Action: the now paralysed man bangs on the door while crying 
Thinner Man: Oh God help me! Help me! help me please! You can help me. 
Scene Action: //intro plays 
Morty: Oh man. Where are we Rick? 
Rick: Morty, remember eight seconds ago when -burp- when you said 'go inside what' and I said 'the battery' and then we showed up here 
Jerry: WHAT'S NEW AT SCHOOL?
Summer: NOTHING,
Morty: NOTHING! OH, UH, ONE OF THE LUNCH LADIES DIED, THEY FOUND HER IN THE GYM WITH, LIKE, TWO HOLES IN HER NECK AND ALL THE BLOOD DRAINED OUT OF HER,
Beth: GOOD LORD! WHO DOES SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
Rick: OBVIOUSLY A VAMPIRE, W-W-WHERE'S THE PEPPER?
Summer: WAIT, WHAT?! VAMPIRES ARE REAL?!
Rick: YES, SUMMER, VAMPIRES ARE REAL, WHO KNEW? OH, RIGHT, ALL HUMANITY, FOR HUNDREDS OF YEARS, NOW,
Morty: YEAH, SUMMER, IT'S A BIG UNIVERSE, GET USED TO IT, R-RIGHT, RICK?
Summer: WELL, WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO?!
Rick: WE'RE GONNA LIVE OUR LIVES UNTIL WE DIE, POSSIBLY BY VAMPIRE, MORE LIKELY AUTO ACCIDENT OR HEART DISEASE, BUT POSSIBLY VAMPIRE,
Summer: GRANDPA RICK, COULDN'T YOU, LIKE, USE YOUR SUPERKNOWLEDGE TO TURN YOURSELF INTO A TEENAGER AND COME TO OUR SCHOOL AND HELP US HUNT THE VAMPIRE DOWN?
Morty: UM -- WOW,
Rick: YEAH, PRETTY SPECIFIC PITCH, SUMMER, I PROBABLY COULD TURN MYSELF INTO A TEENAGER AND HANG OUT IN THE ZIT-COVERED, HORMONE-ADDLED, LOW-STAKES ASSWORLD THAT IS HIGH SCHOOL, BUT HERE'S MY REVERSE-ASK -- WHY IN THE [BLEEP] WOULD I EVER DO THAT, EVER? AND HOW DARE YOU EVEN ASK ME THAT? AND WHY AREN'T YOU MORE ASHAMED OF YOURSELF?
Summer: DAD!
Jerry: BE ASHAMED OF YOURSELF, SWEETIE,
Beth: JERRY! DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU JUST SAID TO OUR DAUGHTER?
Jerry: SOR-RY! I WASN'T PAYING ATTENTION,
Beth: TO A CONVERSATION ABOUT VAMPIRES?!
Jerry: CLEARLY, I DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS ABOUT VAMPIRES, BECAUSE I WASN'T PAYING ATTENTION, WHICH YOU WOULD KNOW, IF YOU EVER PAID ATTENTION TO ME!
Beth: OH, HERE WE GO, RIGHT TO THE VICTIM ROLE,
Jerry: AM I A VICTIM, BETH, OR AM I MARRIED TO A MEAN, UNFAIR MONSTER THAT ALWAYS HURTS ME?!
Rick: JESUS CHRIST! WILL YOU FIX YOUR MARRIAGE OR GET A DIVORCE ALREADY?
Jerry: WELL, WE TRIED A COUPLES' THERAPIST,
Rick: THAT'S EARTH THERAPY, YOU MIGHT AS WELL ASK A HORSE TO FIX A MERRY-GO-ROUND, I MEAN, HE'LL TRY HIS BEST, BUT MOSTLY, HE'S JUST GONNA GET HORRIFIED, I KNOW ABOUT A PLACE OFF-PLANET WITH A 100% SUCCESS RATE,
Beth: WELL, WE WANT TO MAKE IT WORK, IF WE CAN, IT'S JUST --
Rick: -THEN IT'S SETTLED, NO NEED TO PACK, -OH! LET'S GO, GO, GO, GO!
Scene Action: [DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
Morty: DO YOU THINK MOM AND DAD ARE, YOU KNOW, GONNA GET A DIVORCE?
Summer: I THINK IT'S OKAY TO DREAM, MORTY, I'M GONNA GO MAKE SOME WOODEN STAKES,
Rick: I BOOKED YOU FOR A TWO-DAY INTENSIVE AT NUPTIA FOUR, THE GALAXY'S MOST SUCCESSFUL COUPLES' COUNSELING INSTITUTE, THEY COULD SAVE THE MARRIAGE OF A DOG AND A BAR OF DARK CHOCOLATE, THEY COULD SAVE THE MARRIAGE OF A PORN STAR AND A PORN STAR,
Jerry: WELL, I KNOW I'M READY TO TRY WHATEVER IT TAKES,
Beth: WHICH CLEARLY IMPLIES THAT I'M NOT,
Jerry: IT'S NOT A COMPETITION, BETH,
Beth: OH IS THAT HOW YOU'RE GONNA TRY TO WIN, BY IMPLYING I'M COMPETITIVE?
Jerry: IF THE SHOE FITS,
Beth: MY SHOE FITS UP YOUR ASS,
Jerry: YOU WISH!
Rick: OKAY, HAVE FUN, SEE YA THURSDAY!
Jerry: OH! JERK,
Beth: DON'T INSULT MY FATHER, HE'S THE REASON OUR KIDS ARE ONLY HALF-STUPID,
Jerry: HA! YOU JUST CALLED YOURSELF -- OH,
Glaxo Slimslom: BETH AND JERRY SMITH?
Jerry: YES,
Glaxo Slimslom: I'M GLAXO SLIMSLOM, WELCOME TO NUPTIA FOUR, YOUR MARRIAGE CAN REST EASY NOW, JERRY, GO AHEAD AND SIT THERE AND PUT THIS ON, THIS MACHINE ISOLATES THE PART OF THE SUBJECT'S BRAIN CONTAINING ALL PERCEPTIONS OF ITS ROMANTIC PARTNER, AND WE WILL NOW RENDER JERRY'S PERCEPTION OF BETH WITH ARTIFICIAL BIOLOGICAL LIFE, [GROWL] INTERESTING,
Beth: WHAT THE HELL IS THAT?! TAKE THAT BACK! YOU DO NOT THINK THAT ABOUT ME!
Jerry: I DIDN'T DO ANYTHING! THEY SCANNED IT OUT OF MY BRAIN, CAN I TAKE IT BACK?
Glaxo Slimslom: THERE'S NOTHING TO REGRET, WE'RE DEALING WITH UNCONSCIOUS, UNHEALTHY THOUGHTS, BETH, NOW, WE SCAN FOR BETH'S PERCEPTIONS OF JERRY,
Beth: SCAN HARD, HE'S DEAD TO ME,
Jerry: EVERYTHING'S DEAD TO YOU,
Beth: WHAT?
Jerry: NOTHING, [WHIMPER]
Beth: READ IT AND WEEP, BITCH,
Jerry: [CRYING] DOES EVERYBODY SEE WHAT I MEAN?
Glaxo Slimslom: I THINK WE ALL SEE WHAT YOU BOTH MEAN,
Scene Action: [BELL RINGS]
Summer: ANY LEADS ON THE VAMPIRE?
Morty: NO, SUMMER! I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I THINK IT MIGHT BE TIME THAT WE JUST L-LET IT GO,
Summer: OH, SO, NOW, YOU'RE TOO COOL FOR THIS, JUST BECAUSE GRANDPA RICK IS?
Morty: IT'S NOT THAT, IT'S JUST THAT THE UNIVERSE IS A LITTLE TOO BIG TO CARE ABOUT SOMETHING SO SMALL, AAH!
Tiny Rick: WHAT UP, MY HELSINGS? WHO WANTS TO HUNT A VAMPIRE? HA HA HA! Morty: RICK? HOW -- HOW DID YOU --
Tiny Rick: YEAH, I GOT BORED AND THEN, I REMEMBERED, THIS MORNING, HOW I BLEW SUMMER OFF, AND I THOUGHT, "HEY, WHY ARE YOU SUCH A GRUMPY DOUCHE, RICK? GO TO THE GARAGE, TRANSFER YOUR MIND INTO A YOUNGER CLONE OF YOURSELF, AND GET EMBROILED IN SOME YOUTHFUL HIJINKS, WHAT'S THE BFD?" SO HERE I AM, I'M TINY RICK!
Morty: O-O-OKAY,
Summer: WELL, IT'S GOOD YOU'RE HERE, RICK, I WAS PRETTY SURE WE DIDN'T HAVE WHAT IT TAKES TO DEAL WITH A BLOODSUCKER ON OUR OWN,
Tiny Rick: DON'T SHORT-SELL YOURSELF, SUMMER, YOU GOT EVERYTHING IT TAKES, BUT IT'LL STILL BE FUN TO DO THIS AS A [BLEEP] TEAM, MOTHER[BLEEP] TINY RICK!
Summer: YEAH! OH, MY GOD, TOBY MATTHEWS!
Tiny Rick: HEY, TOBY, I'M TINY RICK, I'M NEW, HEY OH -- GO EASY ON ME, HA HA, JUST KIDDIN',
Toby: I LIKE YOUR STRAIGHTFORWARD STYLE AND THAT LAB COAT'S PRETTY COOL, SUMMER,
Summer: HE KNOWS MY NAME!
Tiny Rick: WHY WOULDN'T HE? YOU'RE GREAT! BUT, LISTEN, JUST BE CAREFUL, WE CAN'T RULE ANYBODY OUT AS THE VAMPIRE, NOT EVEN THE DREAMBOATS,
Summer: STOP, TINY RICK,
Tiny Rick: HUNTIN' A VAMPIRE WITH MY GRANDKIDS! [BLEEP]! TINY RI-I-CK!
Glaxo Slimslom: : THE NEXT STEP IS TO WATCH YOUR MYTHOLOGUES INTERACT TOGETHER AND, UH -- BIG SURPRISE -- IT'S NEVER PRETTY, [LAUGHTER] HERE WE HAVE GARRRH AND ZHARBIDAR GLOOMPFSCHS, OR, SHOULD I SAY, HERE WE HAVE THE WAY GARRRH AND ZHARBIDAR PERCEIVE EACH OTHER, [ROARING] [CHUCKLING] AS WE CAN ALL SEE, THIS IS HARDLY THE REAL GARRRH AND ZHARBIDAR, WHICH IS GOOD, BECAUSE THE RELATIONSHIP IN THEIR HEADS IS NOT ONLY UGLY, IT'S UNSUSTAINABLE, [BEEP] [ROAR] [GROWLING] YOU MAY ALREADY BE LEARNING SOMETHING IMPORTANT -- ALL OF THESE RELATIONSHIPS ARE DIFFERENT, NONE OF THEM ARE REAL, AND NONE OF THEM WORK, WE ARE NOT THE MONSTERS WE SOMETIMES SEE EACH OTHER AS, BECAUSE WE ARE REAL AND WE ARE FUNCTIONAL, THAT'S WHAT MAKES US BETTER THAN THEM, WE CAN FIND SOLUTIONS, WE CAN ADAPT, WE CAN COMMUNICATE, [GROWL] AND, MOST IMPORTANTLY, WE CAN WORK TOGETHER,
Summer: WELL, IT WAS A TOUGH ADVENTURE, BUT IT PAID OFF -- OUR SCHOOL IS VAMPIRE-FREE!
Mort: MAN, WHO WOULD'VE SUSPECTED COACH FERATU?
Tiny Rick: YOU DID GREAT, GUYS, COULDN'T HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT YA, YOU KNOW, WE -- W-WE SHOULD BE PROUD OF OURSELVES, WE KILLED A VAMPIRE AND A GYM TEACHER, HA HA HA, TALK ABOUT TWO-FOR-ONE, RIGHT?!
Summer: SO, HOW, EXACTLY, IS YOUR OLD BODY LIVING IN THERE, GRANDPA RICK?
Tiny Rick: OH, YOU KNOW, HYPERBARIC QUANTUM FLUID, [BURP] THAT KIND OF THING, IT PRESERVES LIVING TISSUE, NOT THAT THERE WAS MUCH TO PRESERVE, LOOK AT THAT MUMMY! HA! HA HA! AND I GUESS IT'S TIME FOR ME TO GET BACK INSIDE THE OLD-TIMER,
Summer: OH, MY GOD, TOBY MATTHEWS IS ASKING IF MY PARENTS ARE STILL OUT OF TOWN AND IF WE CAN HAVE A PARTY!
Tiny Rick: ALL RIGHT, WAY TO GO, SUMMER! WHAT DID I TELL YOU?
Summer: OHH! HE'S ASKING IF TINY RICK WILL BE HERE,
Tiny Rick: WELL, YOU KNOW WHAT, SUMMER? TELL HIM TINY RICK WILL BE HERE! AND TELL HIM TO BRING SOME BREWS!
Morty: FOR REAL? Y-Y-Y-YOU WOULD STAY AS TINY RICK, JUST SO WE CAN HAVE A PARTY?
Tiny Rick: HELL, YEAH! WHAT'S ONE MORE NIGHT? AND WHO CAN HAVE FUN WITH THIS OLD BASTARD HANGING AROUND, HUH? [LAUGHTER] WUBBY LUBBY DOOB DOOB! WHOO! -TINY RICK!
Scene Action: [GROWL]
Glaxo Slimslom: MOVING ON, NOW, WE HAVE BETH AND JERRY SMITH FROM THE PLANET E-ARTH, MY HEART IS POUNDING, THIS IS GONNA BE GREAT, THE E-ARTH RELATIONSHIPS ARE SIMPLER, IT'S A PRIMITIVE PLANET, SO THEIR DYSFUNCTIONS ARE OH -- W-WAIT, WHAT? WHAT'S GOING ON? WHERE ARE THE SMITH MYTHOLOGUES? [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYS]
Jerry: OH, MY GOD, [SHRIEK] [GASP]
Glaxo Slimslom: AAH! AAH! OH, MY GOD, SECURE THE CELL! AAAAH! -[SLICE] UH, HEY! YOU KNOW WHAT'S FUN? OUR GIFT SHOP, WHY DON'T WE PROCEED IN AN ORDERLY -- [GROWL] [ WHIMPERING ] OH, DEAR GOD, NO, THEY'RE CODEPENDENT! RUN! [ROARING] OH!
Scene Action: [CRICKETS CHIRP] [CHATTING] [ROCK MUSIC PLAYS] [ LAUGHTER ]
Toby: OH, YEAH, YEAH, YOU REALLY KNOW HOW TO SPORT THAT COLOR BLUE, Summer: REALLY?
Toby: YOU'RE LOOKING REAL GOOD,
Summer: OH, MY GOD,
Jessica: HEY, MORTY, OH, HEY -- HEY, JESSICA, SO, IS TINY RICK YOUR BROTHER OR COUSIN, OR,,,?
Morty: NO, MY GRANDPA JUST TRANSFERRED HIS CONSCIOUSNESS INTO A CLONE OF HIMSELF SO HE COULD BE IN OUR HIGH SCHOOL,
Jessica: COOL,
Party Goer: HEY, TINY RICK'S PLAYING GUITAR,
Tiny Rick: ALL RIGHT, EVERYBODY, THIS NEXT ONE'S COMING STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART, MAKING THE LYRICS UP RIGHT OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD, ♪ LET ME OUT ♪ WHAT YOU SEE IS NOT THE SAME PERSON AS ME ♪ ♪ MY LIFE'S A LIE ♪ I'M NOT WHO YOU'RE LOOKING AT ♪ ♪ LET ME OUT, SET ME FREE ♪ I'M REALLY OLD; THIS ISN'T ME ♪ ♪ MY REAL BODY'S SLOWLY DYIN' IN A VAT ♪ ♪ IS ANYBODY LISTENING' ♪ CAN ANYONE UNDERSTAND? ♪ STOP LOOKIN' AT ME LIKE THAT AND ACTUALLY HELP ME ♪ ♪ HELP ME! ♪ HELP ME; I'M GONNA DIE! TINY RICK! THANKS, EVERYBODY!
Scene Action: [CHEERING]
Crowd: THIS GUY'S AMAZING!
Morty: I LOVE TINY RICK!
Jessica: BAD, ASS,
Scene Action: [HOOTING] -YEAH!
Scene Action: [SNARL] [HISS] [SCREAMING IN DISTANCE] [RATTLE] AAH! [OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS] [GROWL] HUH?
Glaxo Slimslom: WHAT THE [BLEEP]?
Jerry: YEAH, I KNOW! WHAT KIND OF OPERATION ARE YOU RUNNING?
Glaxo Slimslom: US?! WHAT THE HELL KIND OF RELATIONSHIP DO YOU HAVE?!
Beth: OH, RIGHT, BLAME THIS ON US,
Glaxo Slimslom: OKAY, UH, I CAN AND I AM! YOUR DEMONIZED MYTHOLOGIZATIONS OF EACH OTHER ARE COOPERATING,
Jerry: ISN'T THAT GOOD?
Glaxo Slimslom: NO, NO! IT'S BAD! YOU HAVE THE SINGLE WORST MARRIAGE I'VE EVER WITNESSED, IT SHOULDN'T EXIST! YOU SHOULD NEVER, EVER, EVER, HAVE GOTTEN TOGETHER AND I DO NOT UNDERSTAND HOW, OR WHY, YOU WOULD EVER STAY TOGETHER, AAAH!
Beth: WELL, THIS IS JUST BAD COUPLES' THERAPY,
Jerry: TOTALLY,
Scene Action: [PANTING] [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYS]
Glaxo Slimslom: WAIT FOR US!
Pilot: THERE'S ONLY ROOM FOR ONE MORE,
Glaxo Slimslom: I'M A THERAPIST, I'LL TALK TO THEM, THEY'RE NOT THERAPISTS, GO, GO, GO!
Beth: THERE'S GOTTA BE A WAY TO CONTACT MY DAD, LET'S FIND A CONTROL ROOM OR SOMETHING,
Scene Action: [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYS] [CREAK]
Jerry: BETH! YOU'LL WANT TO SEE THIS,
Beth: WHAT IS IT?
Jerry: IT'S A SMALL, HINGED PANEL WITH A TINY AMOUNT OF SPACE BEHIND IT, IF YOU CAN FIND ONE, TOO, WE SHOULD BE SAFE FOR HOURS, MAYBE DAYS!
Beth: YOU STAY PUT, JERRY, I'LL SEND HELP, IF I MAKE IT,
Jerry: YOU DON'T WANT TO FIND YOUR OWN LITTLE HATCH?
Beth: JERRY, I BELIEVE THAT, IF YOU HIDE BY YOURSELF, YOU MIGHT SURVIVE AND I BELIEVE I, BY MYSELF, HAVE A SHOT OF GETTING OUT OF HERE, BUT THE TWO OF US, TOGETHER? I DON'T KNOW, LOOK, MAYBE THE SHRINK WAS RIGHT, GOOD LUCK,
Scene Action: [ROAR]
Beth: ALL RIGHT, NOW, YOU LISTEN TO ME, OH! OR DON'T,
Jerry: HEY! DON'T! PLEASE!
Scene Action: [HISSING] [WHINING]
Jerry: OH, GOD, OH, GOD, OH, GOD!
Goldenfold: NOW, I KNOW I'VE SAID, IN THE PAST, THAT MATH IS IMPORTANT -- AND IT IS! -- BUT I ALSO THINK THAT, ONE DAY, YOU'LL ALL LOOK BACK ON BEING IN HIGH SCHOOL WITH TINY RICK AND MORTY, WHO I HEAR HAD A GREAT PARTY LAST NIGHT, SO, CLASS DISMISSED, YOU'VE GOT THE DAY OFF!
Tiny Rick: ALL RIGHT! GOOD WORK, MR, GOLDENFOLD!
Goldenfold: YEAH, GET OUTSIDE, READ A BOOK, PUT ON SOME SUNSCREEN, DANIELLE!
Tiny Rick: HEY, WHAT'S UP, SUMMER? OOH, NICE TOP,
Summer: THANKS, TINY RICK, YOU THINK YOU MIGHT BE GETTING BACK INTO YOUR OLD BODY TONIGHT?
Tiny Rick: NO CAN DO, TONIGHT'S THE BIG DANCE AND MORTY'S BRINGING JESSICA, HE NEEDS HIS TINY WING MAN, Both: TINY RICK! [LAUGHS]
Summer: OKAY, BUT IF NOT TONIGHT, WHEN?
Tiny Rick: I DON'T KNOW, WHEN I FEEL LIKE IT?
Morty: DAMN, GIRL! YOU NEED TO CHILL OUT! THIS WHOLE THING WAS YOUR IDEA, IN THE FIRST PLACE, AND, NOW, YOU'RE TRYING TO RUSH IT ALONG,
Tiny Rick: YEAH, AND YOU KNOW WHAT? I LIKE HIGH SCHOOL, I LIKE HANGING OUT, TINY RICK!
Summer: BUT WHAT IF THE YOU THAT LIKES IT ISN'T YOU?
Both: [LAUGHTER] OH! OH, SUMMER!
Morty: IT'S JUST RICK IN A YOUNGER BODY, WHAT'S THE -- WHAT'S -- WHAT'S -- WHAT'S -- WHAT'S THE -- WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?
Summer: LOOK AT HIS ART, MORTY,
Tiny Rick: I'VE GOT AN EMO STREAK, IT'S PART OF WHAT MAKES ME SO RAD,
Summer: WHY DOES IT SAY "HELP ME MORTY AND SUMMER!"?
Tiny Rick: COME ON, SUMMER, THAT'S THE TITLE OF THE ART, WHY WAS KNIGHT RIDER CALLED KNIGHT RIDER? THE CAR'S NAME WAS KITT, NOBODY RODE MICHAEL KNIGHT, YOU'RE OVERTHINKING IT, SUMMER, I'M TINY RICK!
Summer: GRANDPA, I THINK THAT, WHEN YOU PUT YOUR MIND INTO THIS BODY'S YOUNG BRAIN, IT DID WHAT YOUNG BRAINS DO -- IT SHOVED THE BAD THOUGHTS INTO THE BACK AND PUT A WALL AROUND THEM, BUT THOSE BAD THOUGHTS ARE THE REAL RICK, THE FACT THAT YOU'RE OLD, THE FACT THAT WE'RE ALL GOING TO DIE, ONE DAY, THE FACT THAT THE UNIVERSE IS SO BIG, NOTHING IN IT MATTERS, THOSE FACTS ARE WHO YOU ARE, SO YOU'RE TRAPPED IN THERE AND YOU CAN ONLY COME OUT IN THE FORM OF TINY RICK'S TEEN ANGST!
Tiny Rick: WELL, SUMMER, I HEAR TOBY MATTHEWS ISN'T INTO PSYCHO CHICKS, CAN'T THINK OF ANYONE THAT IS, I'LL SEE YOU MOTHER[BLEEP] AT THE DANCE! TINY RICK!
Summer: MORTY, YOU HAVE TO HELP ME!
Morty: SUMMER, HE'S HAPPY! I'M HAPPY! I-I-IS THAT WHY YOU'RE DOING THIS, YOU DON'T WANT ME AND RICK TO BE HAPPY?
Summer: NO,
Morty: WELL, THEN GET YOUR SHIT TOGETHER! GET IT ALL TOGETHER AND PUT IT IN A BACKPACK, ALL YOUR SHIT, SO IT'S TOGETHER, AND IF YOU GOTTA TAKE IT SOMEWHERE, TAKE IT SOMEWHERE, YOU KNOW? TAKE IT TO THE SHIT STORE AND SELL IT O-OR PUT IT IN A SHIT MUSEUM, I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU DO! YOU JUST GOTTA GET IT TOGETHER, GET YOUR SHIT TOGETHER,
Scene Action: [SLUG WAILING] [GASPING] GET BACK! [FART]
Jerry: WAIT, FOR REAL? [WHIMPERS] YOU'RE HOW BETH SEES ME? OH, MY GOD, TURN AROUND! I SAID TURN AROUND! HOW CAN BETH HAVE THESE THOUGHTS ABOUT ME?! THAT JUDGMENTAL MONSTER BITCH! I'M NOT TAKING THIS, I WANT TO KNOW WHERE MY WIFE IS, YOU ARE GOING TO HELP ME, NO! NOBODY'S DOING THAT! [GROWLING]
Monster Beth: STAY,
Beth: WHAT DO YOU WANT?
Monster Beth: JERRYS,
Beth: YOU WANT JERRY? I DON'T EVEN WANT JERRY,
Monster Beth: I WANT JERRYS, WAAHEE! AN ARMY,
Beth: [LAUGHS] AN ARMY OF JERRYS,
Monster Beth: THE VALUE OF HIS SUBSERVIENCE IS WASTED ON YOU, I WILL USE IT TO DOMINATE THE UNIVERSE,
Beth: AH HA HA, BOY, JERRY MUST THINK I'M PRETTY STUPID, FOR YOU TO BE THIS STUPID, WOULDN'T IT MAKE MORE SENSE TO PUT MY DUMBASS HUSBAND IN THIS CHAIR, SO YOU CAN MAKE AN ARMY OF YO BADASS SELF?
Monster Beth: [LAUGHS] THERE COULD NEVER BE MORE THAN ONE OF ME, I'M THE STRONGEST, SMARTEST BEING ALIVE BECAUSE JERRY THINKS YOU'RE THAT MUCH STRONGER AND SMARTER THAN YOU ARE!
Beth: OKAY, OUCH,
Tiny Rick: OH, HEY H-HEY-Y! MORTY, JESSICA, WHAT'S UP? CHECK OUT THE NEW DANCE I MADE UP, IT'S CALLED "OOH LET ME OUT!" ♪ LET ME OUT ♪ LET ME OUT ♪ THIS IS NOT A DANCE ♪ I'M BEGGIN' FOR HELP ♪ I'M SCREAMIN' FOR HELP ♪ PLEASE COME LET ME OUT ♪ LET ME OUT ♪ LET ME OUT ♪ THIS IS NOT A DANCE ♪ I'M BEGGIN' FOR HELP ♪ I'M SCREAMIN' FOR HELP ♪ PLEASE COME LET ME OUT ♪ I'M DYIN' IN A VAT ♪ IN THE GARA-A-GE ♪
Scene Action: [CHEERING] -AWESOME!
Morty: OKAY, THAT LAST PART WAS REALLY WEIRD, MAYBE SUMMER'S ON TO SOMETHING HERE,
Jessica: I DON'T KNOW, IT WAS FUN, YOU WANT TO SLOW DANCE?
Principal Vagina: TINY RICK, HEY, GREAT DANCING AS USUAL, MOMENT OF YOUR TIME? TINY RICK, THIS CONVERSATION IS GONNA BREAK MY HEART WIDE OPEN, YOU'RE A GREAT STUDENT AND THE FACT THAT YOU'RE AN 80-YEAR-OLD MAN IN A CLONE BODY, IT NEVER BOTHERED ME, BUT THIS HERE IS ANOTHER MATTER, YOU RECOGNIZE THIS? WE GOT A TIP IT WAS IN YOUR LOCKER, YEAH, NOW, BECAUSE THE GYM COACH WAS A VAMPIRE, THE SCHOOL BOARD IS EMBARRASSED AND WON'T TAKE IT PUBLIC, HOWEVER, THEY CAN'T HAVE STUDENTS KILLIN' TEACHERS, I GOTTA EXPEL YOU FOR THIS ONE, TR, I'M SORRY,
Tiny Rick: I JUST GOT EXPELLED, SUMMER!
Summer: OH! SO I GUESS THERE'S NO NEED TO STAY YOUNG, MY TOP!
Tiny Rick: SCREW YOUR TOP! YOU RATTED ON ME?! I'M TINY RICK!
Summer: FINE! YES! BECAUSE I LOVE YOU AND I'M TRYING TO SAVE YOUR LIFE!
Tiny Rick: HIGH SCHOOL IS MY LIFE! SUMMER SMITH IS A [BLEEP] PSYCHO NERD AND SHE JUST GOT ME KICKED OUT OF SCHOOL!
All: [GASP] [THUD] BOO!
Toby: SUMMER, I THOUGHT YOU WERE COOL!
Summer: I'M SORRY, OKAY?
All: HOW CAN YOU BE SUCH A BITCH?
Jessica: OH, MY GOD, MORTY, YOUR SISTER CROSSED TINY RICK? TALK ABOUT SELF-DESTRUCTIVE,
Morty: YEAH,
Jerry: HEY, JERRY-LOVER! HOW ABOUT A TASTE OF THE REAL THING? [COCKS GUN]
Scene Action: ROAR]
Beth: JERRY!
Jerry: AH, AH, AH, AH AH AH AH AH AAH AAH,
Hero Jerry: NOT ON MY WATCH,
Jerry: THAT'S IT! BETH, IT'S ME, YOUR HUSBAND! I'M HERE TO SAVE YOU, OR MY NAME ISN'T JERRY SMITH! AHA! -YES! JERRY SMITH! YEAH, HERE, -AHA! OKAY, FAIR ENOUGH,
Scene Action: [OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS] [DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
Tiny Rick: SAY GOODNIGHT, OLD MAN,
Morty: [GASP]
Tiny Rick: WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING?!
Morty: PUT IT DOWN!
Tiny Rick: SUMMER, YOU BITCH!
Morty: DON'T TALK TO HER THAT WAY! SHE'S YOUR GRANDDAUGHTER!
Tiny Rick: I DON'T NEED A GRANDDAUGHTER! I'M TINY RI-I-CK!
Morty: SHE'S MY SISTER! AND IF TINY RICK IS GONNA BE AN ASSHOLE TO MY SISTER, THEN, YOU KNOW, Y-Y-YOU MAY AS WELL BE OLD AGAIN,
Tiny Rick: YOU THINK YOU'RE TOUGH, HUH, MORTY? WHAT ARE YOU GONNA DO? I'M TINY RICK, I'M THE COOLEST KID IN YOUR SCHOOL, HOW ARE YOU GONNA JUST MAKE ME DO WHATEVER YOU SAY, HUH?
Morty: I'M GONNA DO WHAT REAL RICK WOULD DO IF HE WAS HERE -- I'M GONNA KICK YOUR ASS! OHHHH! [GRUNTING] RICK, I KNOW YOU'RE IN THERE! I KNOW YOU'RE TRYING TO GET OUT!
Summer: THAT'S IT, MORTY! HOLD HIM DOWN!
Scene Action: [OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS] [BALLAD] ♪ DRINK UP, BABY ♪ STAY UP ALL NIGHT
Summer: LISTEN TO IT, TINY RICK, LISTEN TO ELLIOTT SMITH,
Tiny Rick: UGH! NO!
Summer: FEEL WHAT HE'S FEELING,
Tiny Rick: UGH! NOOOOOOOO! GOD!
Scene Action: ♪ THAT YOU'LL NEVER SEE
Tiny Rick: OH, GOD, WHAT IS LIFE? HOW CAN SOMEONE SO TALENTED DIE SO YOUNG? WHAT IS BEING YOUNG? I'M NOT YOUNG, I'M OLD, I'M -- I'M GONNA DIE, MY BODY ISN'T REAL, MORTY! SUMMER! IT'S ME! IT'S RICK! REGULAR RICK! RICK! HOW DO WE GET YOU BACK INTO YOUR BODY? OKAY, LISTEN CAREFULLY, THERE'S A SET OF DIODES ON THE VAT'S CONTROL PANEL, A BLUE ONE AND A RED ONE, OH, GOD, WHAT KIND OF WORLD IS THIS? I DIDN'T ASK TO BE BORN, I NEED YOU TO CONNECT THE BLUE ONE TO MY LEFT TEMPLE AND THE RED ONE TO -- WHY DOESN'T ANYONE REALLY LIKE ME?
Summer: FOCUS, GRANDPA!
Tiny Rick: JUST PUT THE STUPID WIRES ON MY HEAD! I HATE BEING A TEENAGER!
Scene Action: UGH! ARRGGHH! AH! UHHHHH!
Beth: JERRY, YOU CAN'T BEND METAL,
Jerry: THEN MAKE A ME THAT CAN!
Beth: HOW CAN I DO THAT WHILE I'M WATCHING YOU TOTALLY FAIL TO BEND METAL?
Jerry: GOOD OLD BETH! THE MIND OF A ROBOT AND THE HEART OF AN INSECT!
Hero Jerry: DON'T TALK THAT WAY ABOUT HER,
Jerry: WHAT?
Beth: OH, IT HURTS! OH, GOD,
Goddess Beth: STOP, THIS REPRESENTATION DISPLEASES ME, AAAH!
Beth: GOOD LORD, HOW DID YOU...?
Jerry: WELL, I HAD A FEELING THAT, IN YOUR MIND, THE IDEAL VERSION OF ME IS ONE SMART ENOUGH TO SEE YOU AS... A GODDESS,
Beth: NOT SUCH A STUPID WORM NOW, ARE YOU?
Jerry: HONEY, WHEN IT COMES TO THE SUBJECT OF YOUR EGO, I'M STEPHEN [BLEEP] HAWKINSON,
Beth: UGH, IT'S -- NEVER MIND, I LOVE YOU,
Scene Action: [PROCESSING, POWERING UP] [BUZZ]
RicK: UGH AGH,
Morty: RICK!
Summer: PANTS!
Rick: HOLY SHIT! THANKS, KIDS, YOU FIGURED IT OUT, WELL, SUMMER DID, KIND OF WEIRD THAT YOU WERE THAT WILLING TO SELL MY EXISTENCE OUT FOR SOME TRIM, MORTY,
Morty: WHAT?!
Summer: PANTS!
Rick: BUT LISTEN -- I FORGIVE YOU BOTH BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHAT? I LEARNED, TODAY, SOMETHING IMPORTANT -- THE TEENAGE MIND IS ITS OWN WORST ENEMY, OH, I ALSO LEARNED THIS,,, [BEEPING] OPERATION PHOENIX IS NOT THE FALLBACK I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE, I GUESS IT'S BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD,
Summer: OH, MY GOD! OH, MY GOD! OH, MY GOD, PUT SOME PANTS ON! PUT PANTS ON,
Rick: GRANDPA'S BACK, BABY! GRANDPA'S --
Rick: OH, MAN, I GOTTA PICK UP YOUR PARENTS, THEY HAVE BEEN BLOWIN' ME UP, ONE LAST SWING FOR THE ROAD! AAAAAAAAAAAH!
Summer: FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, GET DRESSED!
Jerry: SO, WHAT DO YOU THINK? YOU WANNA KEEP THIS MARRIAGE GOING A WHILE LONGER?
Beth: AT LEAST UNTIL MORTY HAS GRADUATED HIGH SCHOOL, OH, MM, [MOANING LIGHTLY]
Rick: AHA, YOU SEE? WHAT DID I TELL YOU TWO? IT WORKED,
Jerry: YOU KNOW WHAT, RICK? I GUESS, IN A WAY --
Rick: ALREADY LOST INTEREST, GET IN THE CAR, I'VE BEEN INSIDE A KID ALL DAY AND, NOW, I CAN FEEL MY BONES SCRAPING EACH OTHER, UH, JUST SO YOU'RE PREPARED, THERE'S A BUNCH OF DEAD MES IN THE GARAGE,
Jerry: HUH! SOUNDS LIKE OUR STORIES WERE CONNECTED BY A THEME, [LAUGHTER]
Rick: NOT REALLY, JERRY, PROBABLY A COSMETIC CONNECTION YOUR MIND MISTAKES FOR THEMATIC,
Jerry: OH,
Rick: OLD RICK! RUININ' EVERYTHING!
Scene Action: [SQUEAKING] [OMINOUS MUSIC PLAYS]
Vampire: MASTER,
Dracula: SPEAK,
Vampire: COACH FERATU'S PRESENCE WAS DISCOVERED BY THE HUMANS, HE HAS BEEN DESTROYED, NO BOTHER, THE MORTALS SHALL SOON --
Dracula: I'M SORRY, WHAT DID YOU SAY HIS NAME WAS?
Vampire: COACH FERATU,
Dracula: COACH FERATU, THAT WAS HIS REAL NAME, LIKE HIS ACTUAL VAMPIRE NAME?
Vampire: NO NO NO NO, HIS VAMPIRE NAME WAS BALIK ALISTANE,
Dracula: WHY THE [BLEEP] WOULD HE NAME HIMSELF AFTER A FAMOUS VAMPIRE MOVIE? WAS HE DOING A BIT?
Vampire: I DO NOT KNOW, YOUR UNHOLINESS,
Dracula: JESUS [BLEEP] CHRIST, FROM NOW ON, NO MORE OF THIS CLEVER-NAME BULLSHIT, WHEN A VAMPIRE IS PRETENDING TO BE A HUMAN, THEY CAN JUST CALL THEMSELVES ALAN JEFFERSON OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT, IT'S CRAZY, RIGHT? I MEAN, AM I BEING AN ASSHOLE? OKAY, I FEEL LIKE EVERYBODY IN THE ROOM IS LOOKING AT ME LIKE I'M THE BUZZKILL, I'M NOT? GOOD, OKAY, GREAT, [HISS]
Morty: I GOT TO TELL YOU, RICK, IT'S PRETTY GREAT TO BE IN THIS SPACESHIP, JUST THE TWO OF US, YOU KNOW? JUST CRUISING AROUND, RICK AND MORTY STYLE,
Rick: I AGREE, MORTY, [ BELCHES ] IT'S NICE TO GET BACK TO THE BASICS AFTER A PRETTY INTENSE, MIXED-BAG OF A YEAR,
Morty: OHH!
Rick: RELAX, THAT'S WHAT WINDSHIELDS ARE FOR,
Rick: I DIDN'T KNOW THAT THERE WERE BUGS OUT IN SPACE,
Morty: WELL, W-WHAT DID YOU THINK, MORTY? LIFE JUST DEVELOPED ON EARTH BY ITSELF? HERE, LET ME TAKE CARE OF THIS,
Morty: GEEZ, RICK, THAT'S DISGUSTING, I DON'T WANT TO LOOK AT THAT,
Rick: YEAH, GUESS I'M OUT OF FLUID, L-LET ME FIND A PLACE TO STOP, HEY, MUCHACHO, DOES YOUR PLANET HAVE WIPER FLUID YET, OR ARE YOU GONNA FREAK OUT AND START WORSHIPPING US?
Villager: THE GENERAL STORE OUGHT TO HAVE WHAT YOU NEED,
Rick: THANKS,
Villager: OF COURSE, YOU'LL BE WANTING TO BE GONE FROM HERE BY SUNDOWN,
Rick: YEAH, SURE THING, WAIT A MINUTE, WHAT? WHY?
Villager: SUNDOWN IS WHEN THE FESTIVAL BEGINS,
Morty: THE FESTIVAL?
Villager: OOH, WELL, FOR MILLENNIA, OUR SOCIETY HAS BEEN FREE OF CRIME AND WAR, LIVING IN PERFECT PEACE,
Rick: OH, I KNOW WHAT THIS IS! YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO SUSTAIN WORLD PEACE BECAUSE YOU HAVE ONE NIGHT A YEAR WHERE YOU ALL RUN AROUND ROBBING AND MURDERING EACH OTHER WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE,
Villager: THAT'S RIGHT,
Morty: WHAT?!
Rick: IT'S LIKE "THE PURGE," MORTY, THAT MOVIE "THE PURGE"?
Villager: OH, HAVE YOU BEEN HERE BEFORE?
Rick: NO, NO, BUT I'VE BEEN TO A FEW PLANETS WITH THE SAME GIMMICK, YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES IT'S CALLED THE CLEANSING OR THE RED TIME, THERE WAS THIS ONE WORLD THAT CALLED IT JUST MURDER NIGHT, I-IT'S A PURGE PLANET, THEY'RE PEACEFUL, AND THEN, YOU KNOW, THEY JUST PURGE,
Morty: T-THAT'S HORRIBLE!
Rick: YEAH, YOU WANT TO CHECK IT OUT?
Scene Action: [ ELECTRICITY CRACKLING ]
Rick: SO, WHAT DO YOU DO DURING THE FESTIVAL? YOU LOCK YOURSELF IN, OR YOU GO OUT AND DO SOME STUFF?
Shopkeeper: OH, I DO SOME PRETTY BAD STUFF,
Rick: OH, I BET YOU DO, OLD TIMER, [ LAUGHS ]
Morty: GEE-- RICK, COME ON, THE SUN IS SETTING, W-WE GOT TO GET OUT OF HERE,
Rick: ALL RIGHT, WELL, W-WHAT DO I OWE YOU FOR THE WIPER FLUID?
Shopkeeper: OH IT'S ON THE HOUSE, OH, AND, UH, WHY -- WHY DON'T YOU HAVE SOME CANDY BARS, AS WELL?
Rick: OH, NO WAY, THAT'S REALLY NICE OF YOU,
Shopkeeper: I'M A NICE GUY... FOR NOW, [ Chuckling ]
Rick: OHH, I DON'T DOUBT IT,
Morty: RICK!
Rick: YEAH, YEAH, HEY, HAVE A GOOD FESTIVAL, OLD TIMER,
Shopkeeper: I INTEND TO,
Morty: RICK, UNLOCK IT!
Rick: JUST A SECOND, MORTY, OH, LOOK AT THAT SUNSET,
Morty: STOP SCREWING AROUND,
Scene Action: [ CLICK ]
Rick: THERE WE GO, MUCH BETTER, NOW WE CAN SEE,
Morty: GREAT,
Rick: HEY, YOU KNOW WHAT, MORTY? WHY DON'T WE CHRISTEN OUR SQUEAKY-CLEAN WINDSHIELD HERE BY WATCHING A LITTLE OF THIS PURGE THROUGH IT?
Morty: WHAT?! NO! WHAT IS YOUR PROBLEM?!
Rick: MORTY, GROW UP, IF YOU DON'T WANT TO WATCH, DON'T WATCH, BUT, YOU KNOW, IT'S MY CAR, [ BELCHES ] ALSO, IF YOU TELL YOUR MOM ABOUT THIS, -I'LL PURGE YOU,
Morty: YOU'RE THE WORST, AND THIS PLANET IS THE WORST, HOW CAN YOU BE INTO THIS? YOU KNOW, PEOPLE ARE GONNA KILL EACH OTHER,
Rick: SO, WHAT, Y-Y-YOU TRYING TO SIT HERE AND TELL ME THAT [BELCHES] I-IF -- IF THERE'S A VIDEO ONLINE WITH SOMEONE GETTING DECAPITATED, -YOU DON'T CLICK ON IT?
Morty: NO! WHY -- WHY WOULD I DO THAT? YOU DO THAT?
Rick: I DON'T, BECAUSE IT WOULD BORE ME, I SEE [BLEEP] LIKE THAT FOR BREAKFAST, MORTY, BUT IF YOU DON'T DO IT, I SAY IT'S BECAUSE YOU'RE AFRAID OF YOUR OWN PRIMAL INSTINCTS, SO YOU STUFF THEM DOWN AND --
Scene Action: [ BELL CHIMING ]
Rick: OH, OH! Shh, Shh, IT'S STARTING, -OH-HO-HO! HERE WE GO,
Morty: I'M NOT WATCHING,
Rick: YEAH, YEAH, YEAH, YOUR MEDAL'S IN THE MAIL, -I'M GONNA GET A CLOSER LOOK, Morty: OH, OKAY, SURE, AND THEN SOMEONE'S GONNA THROW A ROCK AND HIT THE CAR AND THEN WE'RE GONNA CRASH AND WE'RE GONNA BE STUCK DOWN THERE AND IT'S GONNA BE WHAT WE DESERVE,
Rick: YAWN, WHOA!
Scene Action: [ INDISTINCT SHOUTING ]
Rick: WHOA, THEY ARE PURGING THE [BLEEP] OUT OF EACH OTHER,
Scene Action: [ MUFFLED SCREAMING ]
Rick: OH, MY GOD! OH [BLEEP] THAT WAS -- OKAY, YEAH, T-THAT WAS GROSS, WOW, MAN, I THINK MY EYES WERE BIGGER THAN MY STOMACH ON THIS ONE, MORTY, UGH, MY APPETITE FOR PURGE-SPECTATING GOT FILLED PRETTY QUICK, OH, GOD, [ GRUNTS ] [ RETCHING ]
Arthrisha: [ WOMAN SCREAMING ] GET AWAY FROM ME! NO! NO! HELP! SOMEBODY HELP ME! AAH!
Rick: ALL RIGHT, MORTY, L-LET'S GET OUT OF HERE,
Morty: WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, HOLD ON, W-WE HAVE TO GO DOWN THERE,
Rick: [ Belching ] WHAT? WHY? THAT POOR GIRL, W-WE HAVE TO SAVE HER, UH, MORTY, IN SPACE, WE HAVE SOMETHING WE CALL THE NON-INTERFERENCE POLICY, WE GOT THE WIPER FLUID, WE WATCHED THEM KILL EACH OTHER, WE'RE LEAVING,
Morty: HELP ME SAVE THAT GIRL, OR I'M TELLING MOM YOU BROUGHT ME HERE,
Rick: YOU LITTLE TURD,
Arthrisha: [ SCREAMING ] PLEASE! LEAVE ME ALONE!
Purger: LEAVE YOU ALONE? DURING A PURGE? I DON'T THINK SO, BABY,
Morty: IT'S OKAY, WE'RE NOT GONNA HURT YOU, MY NAME IS MORTY, THIS IS MY GRANDPA, WE'RE TOURISTS, Rick: NOT ANYMORE,
Scene Action: -AAH! -AAH!
Rick: OH, MY GOD, THIS IS [BLEEP] AWESOME! MORTY, THIS IS REALLY COOL, HEY, Y-YOU WANT TO HELP ME OUT HERE AND KILL SOME PEOPLE? IT'S FUN, WE'RE TOTALLY JUSTIFIED BECAUSE WE'RE SAVING A LITTLE GIRL, I MEAN, W-W-WE'RE BOTH FREE AND CLEAR TO MURDER THESE PEOPLE,
Morty: ARE YOU OKAY? Arthrisha: YES, I HAVE TO FIND SOMEWHERE TO HIDE,
Morty: WELL, YOU CAN HIDE WITH US, RICK?
Rick: YEAH?
Morty: DO YOU THINK WE COULD TAKE -- W-WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
Arthrisha: ARTHRISHA,
Morty: COULD WE TAKE ARTHRISHA UP IN THE SHIP AND, YOU KNOW, JUST WAIT OUT THE PURGE?
Rick: OH, MORTY, HOW CAN I REFUSE AFTER ALL YOU'VE DONE TO BLACKMAIL ME?
Arthrisha: YOUR VEHICLE -- IS IT FROM THE GODS?
Morty: NO,
Rick: YES,
Morty: SO, UH, YOU KNOW, WHEN THE PURGE STARTED, DID PEOPLE GET INTO IT RIGHT AWAY, OR WERE THEY LIKE, "WAIT, WHAT? THIS IS GONNA STOP CRIME HOW, EXACTLY?"
Arthrisha: YEAH, IT TOOK SOME TIME FOR PEOPLE TO ACCEPT IT,
Morty: YEAH, I BET, [ CHUCKLES ] I BET, YEAH, IT'S KIND OF LIKE CELLPHONES, YOU KNOW? AT FIRST, EVERYONE WAS LIKE, "LOOK AT THOSE DOUCHEBAGS PURGING," AND THEN THE NEXT THING YOU KNOW, THEY'RE LIKE, "IT'S JUST SO CONVENIENT,"
Rick: GEEZ, YOU WORKING ON YOUR TIGHT FIVE FOR THE COMEDY STORE, MORTY?
Jerry: WHATCHA DOING? WATCHING SOME TV, PLAYING ON YOUR PHONE?
Summer: IS THAT A REAL QUESTION?
Jerry: JUST MAKING CONVERSATION,
Summer: ARE YOU? WHAT PART OF THAT GIVES ME ANYTHING TO WORK WITH? MY CHOICE IS TO SAY NOTHING, BE SARCASTIC, OR BARK "YES" LIKE A TRAINED ANIMAL, IT'S NOT A CONVERSATION, YOU'RE HOLDING ME VERBALLY HOSTAGE,
Jerry: OKAY, ASS-FACE, I'LL GO IN THE KITCHEN,
Summer: HEY, DAD,
Jerry: YEAH?
Summer: WHATCHA DOING? GOING INTO THE KITCHEN?
Jerry: OKAY,
Summer: YEAH, YOU LIKE THAT?
Jerry: SCREW YOU,
Morty: SO, UH, DO MOST PEOPLE WEAR MASKS WHEN THEY PURGE?
Arthrisha: I-I DON'T WANT TO ANSWER ANY MORE PURGE QUESTIONS,
Morty: ALL RIGHT, HEY, HEY, THAT'S COOL, I CAN ROLL WITH THAT,
Rick: [ BLOWING RASPBERRIES ]
Arthrisha: [ GASPS ] MY NANA!
Rick: HUH?
Arthrisha: MY NANA! WE HAVE TO SAVE HER!
Rick: YOU JUST NOW REMEMBERED YOUR NANA EXISTS,
Arthrisha: I-I WAS TRAUMATIZED,
Rick: HAVEN'T YOU BEEN THROUGH LIKE 15 PURGES? I MEAN, SOME AS A CHILD?
Arthrisha: WILL SOMEBODY JUST HELP ME GET HER?
Rick: FINE, WHATEVER, MORTY, STAY, OH, GOD, OH, CRAP, OH, CRAP!
Arthrisha: GET OUT! GET OUT!
Morty: HEY, WHOA, WHOA, WHOA!
Arthrisha: GET THE [BLEEP] OUT OF THE FLYING MACHINE!
Morty: OH, MY GOD! O-OKAY! OKAY!
Arthrisha: BACK UP, ASSHOLE,
Morty: [ WHIMPERS ]
Arthrisha: BACK UP,
Morty: OHH,
Arthrisha: BACK THE [BLEEP] UP!
Morty: AAH!
Arthrisha: FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH, I'M SORRY, BUT THAT'S NOT REALLY WORTH ANYTHING TONIGHT, IS IT?
Morty: Y-YOU CAN'T LEAVE US HERE, YOU'RE KILLING US! YOU HEAR ME? COME BACK, Y-YOU GOT TO COME BACK, CHANGE YOUR MIND, OH, GEEZ,
Rick: MORTY! AAH! [BLEEP] AMISH BITCH SHOT ME! [ GRUNTS ] SHE TRIED TO PURGE ME, MORTY, YOU LET YOUR WIENER DO THE WALKING, AND NOW I'M DEAD,
Morty: RICK, SHE TOOK THE CAR!
Rick: YOU [BLEEP] KIDDING ME, MORTY?! SHE TOOK MY CAR AND THE GUN, WE'RE LIKE THE REST OF THESE ASSHOLES NOW, W-W-WE'RE GONNA GET PURGED, MORTY, HELP ME UP,
Morty: OH, GEEZ, GEEZ! WAIT A MINUTE, RICK, WHY DON'T WE JUST USE YOUR PORTAL GUN?
Rick: IT'S IN THE CAR, DIP-ASS, [ GRUNTS ] OH, GOD, IT HURTS, SHE GOT ME RIGHT IN THE GODDAMN LIVER, MORTY, IT'S THE HARDEST-WORKING LIVER IN THE GALAXY, MORTY, AND NOW IT HAS A HOLE IN IT, I HOPE IT WAS WORTH IT,
Morty: I WAS JUST TRYING TO DO RIGHT,
Rick: YEAH, WELL, THAT'S NOT REALLY THE THEME OF TONIGHT'S PARTY, HEADS UP, RAPISTS, WELL, DON'T JUST STAND THERE, MORTY, -PURGE 'EM,
Morty: ME?
Rick: NO, ME, SHOULD I RUB MY LIVER HOLE ON THEM? PICK UP A STICK OR SOMETHING AND KILL THEM,
Morty: UM, W-WE COME IN PEACE,
Scene Action: [ SCREAMING ]
Rick: OH, MY GOD, [ GRUNTS ]
Rick: THERE'S MORE WHERE THAT CAME FROM! YOU WANT TO GET PURGED, YOU BRING IT! DROP [BELCHES] DROP YOUR SHIT! DROP IT ALL, MORTY, GO GET THEIR SHIT, HURRY UP, I ONLY HAD ONE OF THOSE THINGS I THREW, I'M HOLDING A BOX OF TIC TACS RIGHT NOW,
Jerry: WANT SOME CRACKERS?
Summer: NO, THANK YOU,
Jerry: ARE YOU READY TO BE NICE TO ME?
Summer: IN EXCHANGE FOR CRACKERS?
Jerry: WHAT HAPPENED TO YOU?
Summer: DAD, GET A JOB, YOU'RE TRYING TO CREATE DRAMA BECAUSE YOU'RE BORED, OH, [ BEEPING, WHIRRING ] IT'S THE SPACE PHONE GRANDPA GAVE US, HELLO?
Rick: HEY, SUMMER, IT'S GRANDPA, I NEED YOU TO DO ME A FAVOR,
Summer: I CAN BARELY HEAR YOU,
Jerry: WHO IS IT?
Rick: Morty and I are on a planet that's purging, I need you to take down --
Summer: A PLAN THAT'S WHAT?
Rick: WE'RE ON A PLANET THAT'S PURGING, SUMMER, PURGING, WE LOST OUR CAR AND MY GUN, AND WE'RE IN A PURGE,
Jerry: OOH, IS IT TADDI MASON?
Summer: LIKE THE MOVIE "THE PURGE"?
Rick: Yes, I-I need you to take --
Summer: THAT MOVIE SUCKED,
Rick: OH, MY GOD, HOLD ON,
Jerry: It's not Taddi Mason?
Summer: Dad, who the [bleep] is Taddi Mason?
Jerry: My friend,
Rick: AAH!
Summer: ARE YOU OKAY? I'M PUTTING YOU ON SPEAKER,
Jerry: TADDI?
Rick: YES, JERRY, IT'S TADDI, A PERSON NO ONE'S EVER HEARD OF UNTIL NOW, CALLING YOU ON A SPACE PHONE,
Jerry: I can't tell if you're being sarcastic,
Scene Action: [ GROWLS ] AAH! [ GROWLING ] [ Gunshots ]
Rick: RELOAD, FAST,
Morty: SUMMER, W-WE NEED YOU TO TAKE DOWN THIS NUMBER, Quit screwing around,
Jerry: MORTY? ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
Morty: No!
Jerry: WHY ARE YOU WITH TADDI MASON?
Morty: Holy [Bleep] Dad! Shut the [Bleep] up!
Jerry: OKAY, I GUESS I'M JUST THIS ENTIRE FAMILY'S TOILET PAPER,
Rick: ARE YOU WRITING THIS DOWN? WILL YOU PLEASE WRITE THIS DOWN? SUMMER: Yes, yes,
Scene Action: [ GROWLING ] AAH! [ GROWLING ]
Rick: YOU SON OF A BITCH! MORTY, I DON'T WANT TO BE THE "A LITTLE HELP" GUY, BUT A LITTLE HELP?
Scene Action: AAH!
Summer: Okay, I have a pen, Go,
Rick: A SPOON, MORTY? A SPOON?!
Morty: I'M SORRY,
Rick: THERE'S A PILE OF SILVERWARE NEXT TO YOU, AND YOU THROW ME THE ONE THING THAT CAN NEVER KILL ANYTHING?
Morty: ALL RIGHT, OKAY!
Rick: Summer, on the shelf above my workbench in the garage, there's a red box with a keypad on it, You're gonna take that box outside, and you're gonna type the number I just gave you into the keypad, Got it?
Summer: GOT IT,
Jerry: IS IT JUST PART OF GROWING UP TO HATE YOUR DAD?
Summer: I'M IGNORING YOU,
Rick: MORTY, IF I CAN GET TO THE TOP OF THAT LIGHTHOUSE, I CAN SEND THE BEACON, AND YOUR SISTER CAN LAUNCH OUR PACKAGE, JUST REMEMBER, IF THERE'S PEOPLE IN THERE AND THEY TRY TO PURGE US, WE GOT TO PURGE THEM FIRST,
Morty: WE'RE NOT PURGING ANYONE, RICK, ALL RIGHT? W-WILL YOU STOP IT?
Rick: MORTY, IF WE'RE GONNA SURVIVE TONIGHT, YOU'RE GONNA NEED TO HARNESS YOUR REPRESSED RAGE,
Morty: I DON'T HAVE ANY!
Rick: SPOKEN LIKE A PERSON WITH REPRESSED RAGE,
Scene Action: [ DOORBELL RINGS ]
Lighthouse Attendant: I TAKE NO PART IN THE FESTIVAL, IF YOU DESIRE TO KILL ME, I ONLY ASK YOU DO IT QUICKLY,
Rick: NO SUCH AGENDA, CHIEF,
Morty: WE'RE NOT TOO KEEN ON THE PURGE, EITHER, SIR, WE WERE JUST HOPING TO GET ON THE ROOF OF YOUR LIGHTHOUSE SO WE CAN SEND A BEACON TO MY SISTER ON EARTH, IT'S A DIFFERENT PLANET,
Rick: BY THE WAY, LIFE ON OTHER PLANETS EXISTS, DON'T LET IT DISTRACT YOU,
Lighthouse Attendant: I'LL LET YOU USE MY LIGHTHOUSE FOR SHELTER AND BEACON-SENDING ON THE CONDITION THAT YOU LISTEN TO MY TALE,
Rick: OKAY,
Morty: DEAL, Rick: ALL RIGHT, I'M GONNA GO TO THE ROOF AND SET THINGS UP, MORTY, YOU LISTEN TO HIS TALE,
Morty: OKAY,
Lighthouse Attendant: [ CLEARS THROAT ] "FADE IN, EXTERIOR, UNNAMED CITY, DAY, THE HUSTLE AND BUSTLE IS A SYMPHONY OF PROGRESS, WE PAN PAST WINDOWS, EACH OF WHICH CONTAIN A DIFFERENT STORY, TO FIND JACEY LAKIMS, 28 -- HOT, BUT DOESN'T KNOW IT, JACEY STOPS WHEN HER HIGH HEEL GETS CAUGHT IN THE GRATING OF A SEWER, SUDDENLY, A MAN STEPS INTO FRAME AND POINTS A GUN AT HER, THIS IS NOT HER DAY, FADE TO BLACK, TITLE -- 'THREE WEEKS EARLIER,'"
Jerry: [ SIGHS ] YOU REALLY DON'T WANT TO TALK TO ME ABOUT THIS,
Summer: DAD, GRANDPA AND MORTY ARE IN DANGER, YOU'RE UNEMPLOYED, AND YOU'RE BORED, -THEY'RE A HIGHER PRIORITY,
Jerry: STOP SAYING I'M UNEMPLOYED!
Summer: OKAY, 7-7-1-9-8-3-6-4-2-1-1 2 -- AAH!
Jerry: GOOD LORD! NOW WHAT?
Scene Action: [ WHIRRING, HUMMING ]
Jerry: LOOK, I'M YOUR FATHER, AND I LOVE YOU IS ALL I'M SAYING, I'LL LEAVE IT AT THAT,
Summer: FINE, DAD!
Scene Action: [ BOTH SCREAM ]
Summer: OH, HE MIGHT HAVE SAID TO TAKE IT OUTSIDE,
Rick: COME ON, SUMMER, HOW HARD IS IT TO TYPE SOME NUMBERS INTO A BOX?
Scene Action: TARGET LOCKED, [ DEVICE BEEPS ]
Rick: OH, THANK GOD, WELL, I DID MY JOB, SUMMER DID HER JOB, NOW ALL MORTY HAS TO DO IS FINISH LISTENING TO THAT TALE,
Lighthouse Attendant: "BLANE- MAYBE I DON'T NEED A NEW FRIEND, JACEY- MAYBE YOU'RE THE ONLY FRIEND I NEED, BLANE- NEED, OR WANT? JACEY- I'VE NEVER BEEN MUCH FOR WANTING, BLANE- SPOKEN LIKE SOMEONE WITH NEEDS,"
Morty: OH, GEEZ,
Lighthouse Attendant: HMM?
Morty: UH, SORRY, K-KEEP GOING,
Lighthouse Attendant: "JACEY REACHES OUT AND TOUCHES HIS FACE, IT'S CLEAR HE NEEDS WHAT SHE WANTS, SHE'S A WOMAN, HE'S A MAN, THE CITY BURNS IN THE BACKGROUND AS HE TAKES HER IN HIS ARMS, FADE OUT, TITLE -- 'THE END'... QUESTION MARK,"
Morty: WOW,
Lighthouse Attendant: YEAH?
Morty: IT'S... G-GOOD JOB, GOOD JOB,
Lighthouse Attendant: YOU LIKED IT? Morty: OF COURSE I DID,
Lighthouse Attendant: YOU DIDN'T LAUGH AT THE SCENE IN THE BAR,
Morty: I... THOUGHT IT WAS FUNNY, BUT I WANTED TO HEAR THE REST,
Lighthouse Attendant: DO YOU HAVE ANY THOUGHTS? NOTES?
Morty: NO, I-I JUST ENJOYED IT, THAT'S MY NOTE, YOU KNOW? PLEASE WRITE MORE,
Lighthouse Attendant: SEEMS A LITTLE INSINCERE,
Morty: WHAT? NO,
Lighthouse Attendant: YOU DON'T HAVE TO MOLLYCODDLE ME, I WANT TO IMPROVE MY WRITING, TELL ME YOUR REAL THOUGHTS,
Morty: ALL RIGHT, WELL, UM, I'M NOT A HUGE FAN, PERSONALLY, OF THE WHOLE "THREE WEEKS EARLIER" TEASER THING, I FEEL LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD START OUR STORIES WHERE THEY BEGIN NOT START THEM WHERE THEY GET INTEREST--
Lighthouse Attendant: GET OUT,
Morty: UM, WHAT?
Lighthouse Attendant: NO, I'M SICK OF THIS, YOU BANG ON MY DOOR, YOU BEG ME TO HELP YOU, I SHARE SOMETHING PERSONAL WITH YOU, AND YOU TAKE A GIANT SHIT ON IT,
Morty: HEY, MAN, WE ASKED IF WE COULD PUT UP A BEACON --
Lighthouse Attendant: WELL, YOU CAN'T, I WANT YOU OUT OF HERE, YOU'RE A PETTY PERSON, AND YOU'RE INSECURE, AND YOU'RE TAKING IT OUT ON ME, THAT'S A GOOD SCRIPT,
Morty: WHAT THE HELL?!
Lighthouse Attendant: I DON'T CARE, I WANT YOU OUT,
Rick: WHAT?
Lighthouse Attendant: TAKE THAT THING DOWN, YOUR GRANDSON IS A SHITTY PERSON, LEAVE NOW,
Rick: MORTY!
Morty: RICK, I DIDN'T DO ANYTHING, I SAT THROUGH HIS ENTIRE SCREENPLAY --
Lighthouse Attendant: YOU "SAT THROUGH IT"?
Morty: YES! DID YOU WANT ME TO WEEP WITH JOY? IT'S TERRIBLE!
Rick: WHOA! MORTY! WE'RE GUESTS HERE,
Morty: I TRIED TO BE A GOOD GUEST! HE DRAGGED IT OUT OF ME!
Lighthouse Attendant: I'M TAKING DOWN THIS BEACON,
Morty: NO, STOP! THAT'S NOT FAIR! JUST BECAUSE YOU HATE YOUR OWN WRITING DOESN'T MAKE ME A BAD PERSON! AAH! YOU LIKE THAT? YOU WANT ME TO CUT TO THREE WEEKS EARLIER WHEN YOU WERE ALIVE?
Rick: WHOA, MORTY, YOU JUST PURGED,
Scene Action: BEACON ARRIVING, [ DEVICE BEEPS ]
Rick: OKAY, TIME TO GO,
Jerry: WELL, TERRIFIC,
Summer: [ SIGHS ] DAD, WHAT'S GOING ON? WHAT'S THE DEAL HERE?
Jerry: I JUST WANTED TO SPEND SOME TIME WITH MY DAUGHTER, YOU'RE GROWING UP SO FAST, YOU USED TO BE MY LITTLE GIRL,
Summer: [ CHUCKLES ] YEAH,
Jerry: REMEMBER WHEN WE USED TO GO TO THE PLAYGROUND, AND I'D PUSH YOU ON THE SWINGS?
Summer: OH, YOU COULD PUSH ME HIGHER THAN ALL THE OTHER KIDS,
Jerry: YOU WERE SO SMALL AND CUTE, I THOUGHT YOU WERE GONNA FLY RIGHT OFF INTO THE STREET,
Summer: [ Chuckling ] I USED TO PEE MY PANTS,
Jerry: I KNOW, AND NOW LOOK AT YOU! YOU HAVE A JOB, YOU'RE MAKING REALLY GOOD MONEY, YOU'RE NOT PAYING ANY RENT, SO YOU HAVE PLENTY OF DISPOSABLE INCOME,
Summer: OH, GOD, DAD, PLEASE, DON'T,
Jerry: I JUST NEED A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS TO GET THROUGH THE MONTH, I HAVE SOME INTERVIEWS COMING UP, SOMETHING'S GONNA COME THROUGH, I CAN FEEL IT,
Summer: I'M GOING INSIDE,
Scene Action: [ DOOR SHUTS ]
Jerry: [ SIGHS ] I GUESS THIS IS WHAT ROCK BOTTOM FEELS LIKE, JERRY, OW!
Rick: IT'S OKAY, MORTY, IT'S THE PURGE, YOU KNOW? PUSHING OLD LIGHTHOUSE KEEPERS DOWN THE STAIRS IS TOTALLY COOL,
Morty: IT'S NOT COOL, RICK, I-I'M NOT LIKE THESE PEOPLE, I CAN'T RUN AROUND CHOPPING PEOPLE'S HEADS OFF ONE DAY A YEAR AND THEN SLEEP WELL THE REST OF THE TIME,
Rick: WELL, YOU BETTER START GETTING USED TO IT, LITTLE BITCH, BECAUSE WE GOT SOME [BLEEP] COMPANY, HEY, THERE HE IS,
Shopkeeper: HERE I AM,
Scene Action: [ BEACON WHIRRING ]
Rick: MORTY, TIME TO [BELCHES] PURGE,
Scene Action: [ GUNFIRE, SCREAMING ] [ TONY! TONI! TONé!'s "FEELS GOOD" PLAYS ] [ SCREAMING ] ♪ IT FEELS GOOD ♪ YEAH ♪ IT FEELS GOOD ♪ HOLDIN' YOU SO ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: GEEZ, WOW, MORTY, NOW YOU'RE GETTING INTO IT, NEVER EXPECTED THAT OUT OF YOU, ALL RIGHT, UH, LET'S GO FIND MY SHIP, HEY, HEY, MORTY, MORTY, THERE IT IS DOWN THERE -- MY SHIP, IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE THE,,, MORTY?
Scene Action: [ GUNFIRE ]
Morty: SUCK MY [BLEEP]
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Morty: EAT THIS!
Rick: OOH, BOY, YOU'RE REALLY, UH,,,
Morty: HA-HA! HA!
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: YOU'RE REALLY GOING FOR IT OVER THERE, HUH? I, UH [BELCHES] I THINK, UH [BELCHES] I THINK THOSE PEOPLE WERE JUST HIDING,
Morty: I DON'T GIVE A [BLEEP]
Scene Action: [ GUNFIRE ]
Rick: OKAY, MORTY, NOW YOU'RE JUST SHOOTING CORPSES,
Morty: HOW DO YOU LIKE THIS?
Rick: OKAY, BUDDY, ALL RIGHT, THAT'S GOOD, GOOD JOB,
Scene Action: [ SCREAMS ]
Rick: TIME TO GO HOME,
Scene Action: [ WEAPON CHARGING ]
Arthrisha: WAIT, STOP! PLEASE, DON'T KILL ME! I-I NEVER INTENDED TO HARM YOU, I SWEAR, I AM TRYING TO END THE FESTIVAL,
Rick: W-W-WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
Arthrisha: I WAS GOING TO USE YOUR SHIP TO DESTROY THE RICH ASSHOLES THAT RUN OUR SOCIETY AND SAVE MY PEOPLE FROM THE HORRORS OF THIS YEARLY FESTIVAL,
Morty: [BLEEP] THAT, RICK! WE GOT TO KILL HER! KILL HER! KILL HER!
Rick: WHOA! GEEZ, MORTY, PURGE IT DOWN A LITTLE,
Morty: "PURGE! DON'T PURGE!" YOU'RE SENDING ME MIXED MESSAGES, RICK,
Rick: MORTY [BELCHES] YOU'RE ACTING LIKE A [BELCHES] FREAKING LUNATIC, CALM DOWN,
Morty: SCREW YOU, RICK! I'LL PURGE YOU, TOO, YOU OLD, RICKETY PIECE OF CRAP! THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME COMING! I'M GONNA RIP YOUR [BLEEP] GUTS OUT AND SMEAR THEM ALL OVER YOUR FACE! I AIN'T TAKING NO SH-- -AAH!
Rick: OKAY, S-SORRY ABOUT THAT, NOW, WHERE ARE THESE RICH PEOPLE?
Scene Action: [ STRING QUARTET PLAYING ] [ GLASS CLINKING ]
Aristocrat: TO ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR OF THE FESTIVAL, PITTING POOR PEOPLE AGAINST EACH OTHER FOR THOUSANDS OF YEARS,
Scene Action: [ TONY! TONI! TONé!'S "FEELS GOOD" PLAYS ]
Aristocrat: WAIT, W-WHERE IS THAT MUSIC COMING FROM? WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THIS?
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: HERE'S THE DEAL, I'M NOT HERE TO JUDGE, I'M JUST A GUY FROM ANOTHER PLANET, BUT THIS GIRL IS ONE OF YOUR POOR PEOPLE, AND I GUESS YOU GUYS FELT LIKE IT WAS OKAY TO SUBJECT HER TO INHUMAN CONDITIONS BECAUSE THERE WAS NO CHANCE OF IT EVER HURTING YOU, IT'S SORT OF THE SOCIO-POLITICAL EQUIVALENT OF, SAY, A SUIT OF POWER ARMOR AROUND YOU, BUT NOW THINGS ARE EVENED OUT, SO, ARTHRISHA?
Scene Action: [ ALL GASP ]
Arthrisha: HAPPY FESTIVAL [BLEEP] SUCKERS! SUCK MY [BLEEP] CHEW MY BALLS! SUCK MY HUGE [BLEEP]
Rick: GEEZ,
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Arthrisha: YOU WANT TO GET IN ON THIS, RICK?
Rick: NO, I REALLY -- HONESTLY, I-I'VE HAD MY FILL, IT'S GRATUITOUS AT THIS POINT,
Arthrisha: YOU SURE YOU DON'T WANT TO JOIN IN? THIS IS REALLY AMAZING,
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: YEAH, BUT -- AH, ALL RIGHT, [BLEEP] IT,
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Arthrisha: YEAH, BITCH, WHAT'S UP?
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD ♪ IT FEELS GOOD ♪ YEAH ♪ IT FEELS GOOD WHOA! ♪ OHH, IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: OKAY, NOW IT'S TIME WE DO A LITTLE DANCING TO -- TO TONY! TONI! TONé!
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD, YEAH
Rick: LOOK AT MY [BLEEP] FEET, MOTHER [BLEEP]
Arthrisha: WHOO! AW, YEAH!
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: ARTHRISHA, WHAT DO YOU GOT?
Arthrisha: CHECK THIS MOVE OUT,
Scene Action: ♪ OH, IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: [ BELCHES ] OH, HO!
Arthrisha: I DON'T KNOW WHAT SONG THAT IS, BUT I [BLEEP] LOVE IT!
Rick: "FEELS GOOD," IT'S A [BLEEP] HIT SONG,
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Rick: TOPPED THE CHARTS, I THINK, HO, HO!
Scene Action: ♪ OH, IT FEELS GOOD [ ROOSTER CROWS ]
Arthrisha: HEY, THANKS FOR HELPING ME, RICK, YOU'RE A PRETTY GREAT GUY,
Rick: YEAH, YEAH, YEAH, [BLEEP] YOU FOR SHOOTING MY LIVER, I'LL SEE YOU AROUND,
Morty: OH, MAN, WHAT -- WHAT HAPPENED? DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT, MORTY, LISTEN, IF YOU WANTED TO TRY TO GET A PIECE, YOU BETTER HURRY UP, NOW'S YOUR LAST CHANCE,
Scene Action: Morty; HEY, HEY, ARTHRISHA, UM, MAYBE I COULD --
Arthrisha: UH, I HAVE A BOYFRIEND,
Morty: OKAY,
Arthrisha: I'M NOT TRYING TO BE RUDE, I JUST -- I DON'T WANT TO LEAD YOU ON,
Morty: I-I-I UNDERSTAND,
Arthrisha: I MEAN, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HELPING END THE FESTIVAL, BUT I HAVE A BOYFRIEND, AND, UH, HE'S JUST --
Morty: OKAY, OKAY, YOU CAN STOP SAYING IT, I TOOK IT OKAY THE FIRST TIME, AND NOW YOU'RE JUST REPEATING STUFF,
Arthrisha: OH, I'M SORRY,
Morty: IT'S OKAY,
Arthrisha: OH, YOU'RE SO SWEET, I JUST -- OH, BUT I CAN'T,
Morty: YEAH, YOU'RE STILL DOING IT,
Farmer: IT WON'T BE EASY CREATING A NEW SOCIETY FROM THE GROUND UP,
Rick: WELL, A HELPFUL RULE MIGHT BE IF YOU NEED SOMETHING, YOU GET IT, PRETTY SIMPLE, RIGHT?
Villager: I NEED FOOD,
Rick: WHO'S GOT FOOD FOR THAT GUY?
Baker: I DO, BUT THIS IS FOR ME,
Villager: CAN'T YOU MAKE SOME MORE?
Baker: OH, SURE, AND WHILE I'M MAKING FOOD FOR EVERYONE, WHO TAKES CARE OF MY KIDS?
Farmer: I'LL TAKE CARE OF YOUR KIDS, IF I GET SOME EXTRA FOOD FOR IT,
Baker: EXTRA FOOD?
Farmer: WELL, I'M NOT GONNA DO EXTRA WORK IF WE ALL GET THE SAME,
Rick: ALL RIGHT, OKAY, FAIR IS FAIR, IF YOU DO EXTRA WORK, YOU GET EXTRA FOOD,
Farmer: OH,
Scene Action: [ ALL MURMURING ]
Baker: WHO'S GONNA KEEP TRACK OF WHO GETS HOW MUCH FOOD FOR HOW MUCH WORK?
Farmer: HELLO, I CAN DO THAT, I'LL KEEP TRACK OF EVERYONE'S FOOD, YOU KNOW, IN EXCHANGE FOR FOOD,
Baker: THAT'S NOT A REAL JOB!
Farmer: OH, AND MAKING FOOD IS?
Baker: YOU SON OF A BITCH!
Farmer: EAT THIS!
Scene Action: [ ALL SCREAMING ]
Villager: GUYS, GUYS, GUYS, GUYS, WHOA, WHOA, COOL IT, NOW, TAKE IT EASY, THERE'S TOO MUCH AGGRESSION HERE, WHAT IF WE DESIGNATE A PERIOD OF TIME DURING WHICH WE CAN ALL GET THIS HATE, MURDER, AND RAGE OUT OF OUR SYSTEM --
Morty: I CAN'T HELP BUT FEEL ASHAMED ABOUT WHAT I DID BACK THERE, RICK, I GUESS YOU WERE RIGHT, I'VE GOT A LOT OF REPRESSED STUFF I NEED TO DEAL WITH,
Rick: DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT, MORTY, REMEMBER THOSE CANDY BARS EARLIER THAT WE GOT IN THE FIRST ACT?
Morty: YEAH, WHAT ABOUT THEM?
Rick: TURNS OUT THEY HAVE A CHEMICAL IN THEM CALLED PURGENOL THAT AMPLIFIES ALL YOUR VIOLENT TENDENCIES,
Morty: OH, BOY, WHEW! THANK GOODNESS FOR THAT, HUH? THAT'S A RELIEF,
Rick: YEP, DON'T EVEN SWEAT, YOU'RE STILL THE SAME OLD MORTY, YOUR CHARACTER'S TOTALLY PROTECTED,
Scene Action: ♪ IT FEELS GOOD
Man: AND THERE'S THE APPROACH,
Beth: JERRY, WHAT IS "TADDI MASON LLC," AND WHY IS OUR PHONE BILL $700?
Jerry: UH...
Man: HEY, ARE YOU BORED,,,
Jerry: UH...
Man: ,,,LONELY, JUST LOOKING FOR A FRIEND? UH...
Man: CALL ME, TADDI MASON, IT'S ONLY $1,99 A MINUTE TO TALK,
Jerry: UH...
Man: SIGN UP TODAY, AND I'LL EVEN CALL YOU ON A REGULAR BASIS,,,
Jerry: UH...
Man: ...FOR JUST $1,99 A MINUTE, THAT'S A STEAL BECAUSE I'M A GREAT PAL,
Jerry: UH...
Man: WE COULD TALK ABOUT SPORTS OR BARBECUE,
Jerry: [ GRUNTS ]
Beth: JERRY, GET A JOB, 
Jerry: THE TRICK TO CEREAL IS KEEPING 70% ABOVE THE MILK,
Beth: JERRY, GET A JOB,
Scene Action: [ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
Rick: UH, W-WHY DON'T YOU GET IT, JERRY? YOU'RE THE MAN OF THE HOUSE, AND YOU DON'T HAVE A JOB,
Jerry: [ SIGHS ]
Courier Flap: DELIVERY FOR RICK, MORTY, SUMMER, BETH, AND JERRY,
Summer: GROSS, WHAT IS THAT THING?
Rick: IT'S A COURIER FLAP, IT'S LIKE THE INTERGALACTIC VERSION OF U,P,S,, BUT LESS OFF-PUTTING, OH, SHIIIT! IT LOOKS LIKE AN EGG-VITE FROM BIRDPERSON, MUST BE TIME FOR HIS ANNUAL OSCAR PARTY, AND, BY THE WAY, OUR TV SIGNALS TAKE LIGHT YEARS TO REACH HIS PLANET, NOBODY TELL HIM THAT "BRAVEHEART" WINS,
Scene Action: [ MUSIC PLAYS ]
Birdperson: GREETINGS, THIS IS BIRDPERSON,
Tammy: AND TAMMY!
Birdperson: INVITING YOU TO PLANET SQUANCH FOR OUR MATE-MELDING CEREMONY --
Rick: BLUGH!
Scene Action: [ Muffled ]
Tammy: IF YOU'RE FROM EARTH, THAT MEANS WE'RE GETTING MARRIED!
Summer: OH, MY GOD! MY FRIEND TAMMY'S MARRYING BIRDPERSON!
Scene Action: Jerry; WHAT THE HELL IS A BIRDPERSON?
Morty: HE'S RICK'S BEST FRIEND,
Rick: UH, L-LET'S NOT GET CARRIED AWAY, MORTY,
Courier Flap: WOULD YOU LIKE TO RSVP OR SEND A GIFT?
Rick: NO, WEDDINGS ARE BASICALLY FUNERALS WITH CAKE, IF I WANTED TO WATCH SOMEONE THROW THEIR LIFE AWAY, [BURPS] I'D HANG OUT WITH JERRY ALL DAY,
Courier Flap: AFFIRMATIVE! RETURNING TO SENDER,
Beth: NO, HOLD ON, STAY, COURIER FLAPS,
Courier Flap: STAYING!
Beth: DAD, YOU HAVE A FRIEND THAT'S GETTING MARRIED, THAT'S A BIG DEAL,
Jerry: IT'S A BIG DEAL HE HAS A FRIEND,
Rick: WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT FRIENDSHIP, JERRY?
Courier Flap: CONFIRMED, SHIPPING JERRY,
Scene Action: [ Muffled ]
Jerry: WHOA, WHOA, WAIT! AAH!
Beth: OH, GOD! JERRY!
Summer: DAD!DAD!
Beth: WHERE IS IT TAKING HIM?
Rick: I ASSUME PLANET SQUANCH -- 6,000 LIGHT YEARS ACROSS THE GALAXY,
Morty: WHOA, T-THAT'S -- THAT'S INSANE!
Rick: YEAH, I KNOW, NOW WE HAVE TO GO TO THE WEDDING,
Scene Action: [ UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYIN ] [ BOTTLES RATTLING ]
Squanchy: RICK SANCHEZ! YOU PSYCHO BAG OF SQUANCH!
Rick: HEY, WHAT'S UP, SQUANCHY? Summer and Morty: HEY, SQUANCHY,
Squanchy: MORTY, SUMMER! AND YOU MUST BE BETH, MWAH! ENSQUANCHE!
Beth: YOU'RE LANGUAGE HAS THE WORD "SQUANCH" IN IT A LOT, DOESN'T THAT BECOME TEDIOUS AND WORN OUT, LIKE THE SMURF THING?
Rick: BETH, SQUANCHY CULTURE IS MORE CONTEXTUAL THAN LITERAL, YOU JUST SAY WHAT'S IN YOUR SQUANCH AND PEOPLE UNDERSTAND,
Beth: OH, OKAY, I SQUANCH MY FAMILY,
Squanchy: UH...
Beth: WHAT, I DO, I SQUANCH MY FAMILY,
Squanchy: STOP SAYING IT, GROSS, COME ON IN, GUYS, THE GUEST ARE HAVING COCKSQUANCHES,
Jerry: [ GROANING ] [ GASPS ] WHERE AM I?!
Beth: YOU'RE AT A WEDDING, GO CHANGE,
Singer: ♪ AND I'M AN ALIEN WITH JAZZ RAP STYLE ♪ ♪ JAZZ RAPPING FOR AN ALIEN MILE ♪ ♪ FAT BEATS AND AN ALIEN SMILE ♪ JAZZ SPACE PHONE, ALIEN DIAL IS MY FRIEND ♪ ♪ I GOT A MOUTHFUL OF JAZZ FOR YOUR ASS ♪ [ CRYING ] ♪ AND I'M GONNA KEEP JAZZING [ BOTH SQUEALING ]
Tammy: OH, YOU MADE IT!
Summer: I WOULDN'T IT FOR THE WORLD! OH, MY GOD, I LOVE YOUR RING,
Tammy: THANKS, IT WAS BIRDPERSON'S GRANDMOTHER'S, SHE FOUGHT A SQUIRREL FOR IT,
Morty: BIRDPERSON,
Birdperson: RICK, I AM PLEASED YOU AND YOUR FAMILY COULD WITNESS MY MELDING WITH TAMMY,
Beth: OUR PLEASURE,
Rick: YEAH, I JUST HOPE YOU GOT A PRE-MELD,
Morty: RICK!
Rick: WHAT?! IT'S JUST A PRACTICAL WAY OF MAKING SURE THAT WHEN SHE'S DONE WITH YOU, YOU CAN GET ONE OF YOUR BALLS BACK,
Beth: JESUS, DAD,
Morty: HE'S JUST GRUMPY FROM THE FLIGHT,
Rick: OHH, I-I WAS HAPPY ON THE FLIGHT, I'M GRUMPY FROM THE LANDING,
Jerry: [ SIGHS ] WELL, I LOOKED AT THE GUEST BOOK, WE DON'T KNOW A DAMN PERSON HERE, HI! JERRY SMITH -- FATHER OF THE BRIDE'S FRIEND, ADVERTISING IS MY USUAL GAME, BUT I'M BETWEEN --
Beth: JERRY, STOP NETWORKING, WE'RE IN SPACE,
Scene Action: Jerry; "JERRY, GET A JOB! JERRY, DON'T LOOK FOR A JOB AT AN ALIEN WEDDING!" I DON'T GET YOU,
Beth: THIS IS THE CLOSEST I'VE EVER GOTTEN TO THIS PART OF MY FATHER'S LIFE, I DON'T WANT TO BLOW IT,
Jerry: OKAY, I GET IT, I'M CRAMPING YOUR STYLE,
Beth: YOU SAY YOU GET IT, BUT I'M SCARED YOU'LL KEEP DOING IT, LOOK, HERE'S SOME HUMANS YOU CAN PRACTICE ON,
Pat: YOU MUST BE SUMMER'S MOM AND DAD,
Donna: WE'RE TAMMY'S PARENTS -- PAT AND DONNA GUTERMAN, Beth: HI, BETH, THIS IS JERRY,
Jerry: SO YOU'RE TEENAGE DAUGHTER'S MARRYING A BIRDMAN, ARE YOU GUYS DOWN WITH THAT? [ CHUCKLES ] NO PUN INTENDED,
Donna: WE'RE QUITE PROUD,
Pat: HE'S A WONDERFUL PERSON AND AN INCREDIBLE BIRD,
Jerry: STILL, WHAT IS HE, 40? [ CHUCKLES ] IT'S JUST, YOU KNOW, WHEN HE WAS 30, SHE WAS AN ACTUAL CHILD, WHEN HE WAS HER AGE, SHE WASN'T BORN, WHEN HE WAS, LET'S SEE, LIKE, 18, SHE WAS LITERALLY IN THERE IN YOUR WOMB, IMAGINE BEING PREGNANT WITH YOUR DAUGHTER AND A BIRD TEENAGER COMES INTO YOUR HOME AND SAYS, "I'LL TAKE THAT, I'LL HAVE SEX WITH THAT,"
Scene Action: [ BOTH CHUCKLE ]
Beth: GIVE US ONE SECOND,
Jerry: OOF!
Beth: WERE YOU BORN WITH YOUR FEET IN YOUR MOUTH?
Jerry: I WAS TRANSPORTED HERE AGAINST MY WILL IN A MEATBALL, ALL RIGHT? SO TAKE YOUR ATTITUDE TO THE MEN'S SECTION OF KMART, 'CAUSE YOU NEED TO CUT ME SOME SLACK... S,
Beth: I WANT YOU TO STAND IN THE CORNER AND FACE THE CORNER AND TALK TO NOBODY,
Jerry: MAYBE.... I... WILL,
Morty: YOU KNOW, YOU'RE NOT BEING VERY SUPPORTIVE OF BIRDPERSON ON HIS BIG DAY,
Rick: BIRDPERSON'S BIG DAY, MORTY, WAS AT BLOOD RIDGE ON GLAPFLAP'S THIRD MOON AGAINST THE GROMFLAMITES! THIS? THIS IS A LOSING BATTLE,
Morty: GEEZ, RICK, IT'S NOT LIKE HE'S DYING, HE'S GETTING MARRIED! I MEAN, WHAT DO YOU THINK'S GONNA HAPPEN IF YOU OPEN YOURSELF UP A LITTLE BIT? I MEAN, LOOK AROUND, THIS IS YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS ALL AROUND YOU, YOU KNOW? TAKE THE DAY OFF, THERE'S NOTHING TO RUN FROM, NOTHING TO FIGHT,
Tammy: [ WHISTLES ] THAT'S HIS LAST NAME,
Summer: ARE YOU HYPHENATING IT?
Jerry: SQUANCH THIS, MO-FO, [ BOTH LAUGH ]
Rick: GOOD ONE, MORTY, EXCUSE ME, BARTENDER, CAN YOU MAKE ME A DUMB GRANDSON PEP TALK? IT'S ONE PART LAME ADVICE ABOUT STUFF YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT AND A LOT OF VODKA,
Bartender: MM-HMM, I HAVE A LOT OF VODKA,
Rick: THEN I'LL TAKE ONE OF THOSE, I DON'T NEED THE REST,
Morty: GOD, WHATEVER, RICK,
Beth: OH, IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU AND MY DAD HAVE A LONG HISTORY TOGETHER, WISH I COULD SAY THE SAME,
Birdperson: THE ROAD YOUR FATHER AND I WALKED TOGETHER IS SOAKED DEEPLY WITH THE BLOOD OF BOTH FRIENDS AND ENEMIES,
Beth: MUST BE NICE, UM, I USED TO HAVE TO DRAW HIM INTO FAMILY PHOTOS WITH A CRAYON,
Birdperson: THE WAR IN WHICH WE FOUGHT IS FAR FROM OVER, WE LIVE OUR LIVES IN HIDING,
Beth: I GUESS I SHOULD BE HAPPY FOR YOU, I MEAN, GREAT, YOU GUYS GOT TO HANG OUT, I HOPE YOU HAD A BLAST,
Birdperson: THE GALACTIC GOVERNMENT CONSIDERS US TERRORISTS, IT'S UNWISE OF ME TO SHARE THESE DETAILS, BUT I'VE BECOME INEBRIATED,
Beth: I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN APPRECIATE WHAT IT MEANS TO GROW UP WITHOUT A FATHER, BUT --
Birdperson: THE GUEST LIST AT THIS WEDDING INCLUDES 17 OF THE FEDERATION'S MOST WANTED, WE HAVE COMMITTED NUMEROUS ATROCITIES IN THE NAME OF FREEDOM,
Beth: ANNND DURING THAT TIME, I DON'T SUPPOSE HE EVER MENTIONED HIS DAUGHTER, ARE THOSE BABY QUICHES?
Birdperson: NIGHT CRAWLER PATE, I SHOULD PREPARE FOR THE CEREMONY,
Beth: LIKE TALKING TO A BRICK WALL,
Scene Action: [ SQUAWKING ]
Squanchy: IN THE NAME OF THE SQUANCH, THE SIX RIVERS, THE FOUR SQUANCHES, AND THE NINE BALLS, I UNITE THESE TWO ORGANISMS IN ETERNAL SQUANCH! TAMMY, YOU MAY SQUANCH YOUR VOWS NOW,
Tammy: BIRDPERSON... [ INHALES SHARPLY ] YOU ARE MY SEED, MY WORM, MY EARLINESS, AND MY LACK OF CATS, I PROMISE TO BE YOURS UNTIL YOUR DEATH,
Squanchy: NICE!
All: AWW!
Squanchy: BIRDPERSON,
Birdperson: TAMMY, I WAS APPROACHING INFERTILITY WHEN I MET YOU, BUT THERE IS STILL TIME, I AM YOURS UNTIL MY DEATH,
All: AWW!
Rick: [ Burping ]
Beth: AWW,
Squanchy: I NOW PRONOUNCE YOU SQUANCH AND BIRDPERSON!
Scene Action: [ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE AND PROFANE KISSING ] ♪ GIRL, YOU GOT IT GOING ON [ CHILDREN LAUGHING ]
Photographer: [ Monotone ] I AM NOT STARING AT YOU, I AM A CYBORG PHOTOGRAPHER, JUST ACT NATURAL, THIS IS A CANDID SHOT, I DON'T REQUIRE A CAMERA SO -- SORRY, HI, I AM NOT STARING AT YOU,
Scene Action: [ SCREAMS ] [ CLINKING ]
Rick: UH, HI, EVERYBODY, I'M RI[BURPS]CK, YOU KNOW, WHEN I FIRST MET BIRDPERSON, HE WAS, UHH... LISTEN, I'M NOT THE NICEST GUY IN THE UNIVERSE BECAUSE I'M THE SMARTEST, AND BEING NICE IS SOMETHING STUPID PEOPLE DO TO HEDGE THEIR BETS, NOW, I HAVEN'T BEEN EXACTLY SUBTLE ABOUT HOW LITTLE I TRUST MARRIAGE, I COULDN'T MAKE IT WORK, AND I COULD TURN A BLACK HOLE INTO A SUN, SO AT A CERTAIN POINT, YOU GOT TO ASK YOURSELF WHAT ARE THE ODDS THIS IS LEGIT AND NOT JUST SOME BIG LIE WE'RE ALL TELLING OURSELVES BECAUSE WE'RE AFRAID TO DIE ALONE? BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, THAT'S EXACTLY HOW WE ALL DIE -- ALONE,
Morty: OH, BOY,
Beth: OH, DAD,
Jerry: JESUS,
Rick: BUT -- BUT... HERE'S THE THING, BIRDPERSON IS MY BEST FRIEND, AND IF HE LOVES TAMMY, WELL, THEN I LOVE TAMMY, TOO,
Scene Action: [ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
Rick: TO FRIENDSHIP, TO LOVE, AND TO MY GREATEST ADVENTURE YET -- OPENING MYSELF UP TO OTHERS,
Summer: HEAR, HEAR!
Jerry: CHEERS!
Morty: CHEERS TO THAT, MOTHER[BLEEP]
Tammy: THANK YOU, RICK, THAT WAS BEAUTIFUL, GOSH, I LOOK AROUND THIS ROOM, AND I THINK, "UH, TAMMY, YOU'RE A HIGH-SCHOOL SENIOR FROM THE PLANET EARTH, AND YOU'RE MARRYING A 40-YEAR-OLD BIRDPERSON? LIKE, WHAT?!"
Scene Action: [ LAUGHTER ]
Summer: YEAH, TAMMY!
Tammy: BUT THEN I THINK, YOU KNOW, IN A LOT OF WAYS, I'M NOT A HIGH-SCHOOL SENIOR FROM THE PLANET EARTH, IN A LOT OF WAYS, WHAT I REALLY AM IS A DEEP-COVER AGENT FOR THE GALACTIC FEDERATION, AND YOU GUYS ARE A GROUP OF WANTED CRIMINALS, AND THIS ENTIRE BUILDING IS, IN A CERTAIN SENSE, SURROUNDED,
Scene Action: [ ALL MURMUR ]
Rick: OH, SHIT,
Beth: I... DON'T GET THE METAPHOR,
Jerry: I'LL EXPLAIN IT TO YOU LATER,
Tammy: EVERYONE HERE IS UNDER ARREST FOR CRIMES AGAINST THE FEDERATION,
Cyborg: L'CHAIM!
Birdperson: TAMMY, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
Tammy: SIT YOUR BIRD ASS DOWN,
Birdperson: TAMMY? [ CAWING WEAKLY ]
Rick: BIRDPERSON!! NO!!
Scene Action: [ SCREAMING ]
Jerry: HOLY -- [ BEEP ]
Tammy: DROP THE PORTAL GUN, SLIDE IT TO THE CENTER OF THE ROOM,
Scene Action: [ BEEPING ]
Tammy: SOMEBODY CONFISCATE THAT AND DON'T DAMAGE IT, THEY'LL WANT IT AT --
Scene Action: [ WHOOSHING ] [ HIGH-PITCHED RINGING AND MUFFLED BACKGROUND ]
Rick: [ SIGHS, ROARS ]
Squanchy: THERE'S NO TIME TO SQUANCH! GET YOUR FAMILY OUT OF HERE! I GOT THIS, [ GULPS ] [ ROARING ] [ Deep voice ] HOW ABOUT A TASTE OF MY SQUANCH?! [ GROWLING ]
Rick: COME ON, THIS WAY!
Squanchy: SQUANCH THIS!
Scene Action: [ ENGINE TURNS OVER ]
Jerry: GOOD THING I GRABBED A SPACE WEAPON,
Rick: THAT'S A CONFETTI GUN, YOU [BLEEP] IDIOT!
Beth: DAD!
Rick: HOLD ON TIGHT!
Scene Action: AAAH!! AAAAH!! [ SIRENS WAILING ]
Rick: GOD DAMN IT! GOD DAMN IT!! WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED BACK THERE?! THIS IS ON YOU GUYS, I TOLD YOU WEDDINGS ARE STUPID,
Jerry: UH, RICK, IS THERE ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO TELL US ABOUT YOUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THIS PREVIOUSLY UNKNOWN GALACTIC GOVERNMENT?
Rick: ALL THE IMPORTANT POINTS SEEM PRETTY CLEAR, NO? THEY THINK THEY CONTROL THE GALAXY, I DISAGREE, DON'T HATE THE PLAYER, HATE THE GAME, SON,
Jerry: HOW COULD YOU BE SO DISHONEST WITH THIS FAMILY?
Rick: OH! OH, SHOULD I HAVE BEEN MORE OPEN AND TRUSTING AND LOVING LIKE, OH, I DON'T KNOW, MY NOW DEAD BEST FRIEND? OR YOUR DAUGHTER, WHO IS BFFs WITH AN INTERGALACTIC NARC?
Summer: HEY, TAMMY WAS COOL!
Rick: AND NOW WE KNOW WHY,
Summer: BECAUSE OF YOU!
Rick: [BLEEP] YOU, SUMMER, AND [BLEEP] THE GOVERNMENT, AND [BLEEP] ME FOR LETTING MY GUARD DOWN, WHICH I WILL NEVER DO AGAIN,
Scene Action: Morty; GEEZ, RICK! YOU CAN'T SAY F-- "'F' YOU" TO YOUR GRANDDAUGHTER,
Rick: I JUST DID, MORTY, HERE'S DESSERT, [BLEEP] YOU,
Beth: LOOK, I THINK WE'VE ALL HAD A TOUGH WEDDING, ACTUALLY, THE WEDDING WAS BEAUTIFUL, THE RECEPTION GOT OUT OF HAND, ANYWAY, I SAY WE GO HOME, SLEEP IT OFF, AND HAVE A FAMILY MEETING IN THE MORNING,
Rick: YEAH, ABOUT GOING HOME, WE CAN'T -- EVER,
All: WHAT?!
Rick: OH, THESE GUYS ARE LOOKING FOR US NOW, EARTH WILL BE SWARMING WITH THEM,
Jerry: US?!
Beth: JERRY -- I WANT TO GO HOME!
Rick: LOOK, ANYONE THAT WANTS TO GO BACK TO EARTH IS FREE TO GO BACK TO EARTH, BUT HERE'S WHAT'S GONNA HAPPEN, ALIENS BUREAUCRATS ARE GONNA ARREST YOU, THEY'RE GONNA PUT THE INTERGALACTIC EQUIVALENT OF [BURPS] JUMPER CABLES UNDER YOUR NUTS AND OR LABIA AND HOOK THEM UP TO AN ALIEN CAR BATTERY UNTIL YOU TELL THEM WHERE I AM -- WHICH I GUARANTEE YOU, YOU'RE NOT GONNA KNOW, WHICH I GUARANTEE THEY WON'T BELIEVE, SO WHO'S HOMESICK? BY APPLAUSE,
Summer: [ SOBBING ]
Rick: LADIES? ANYBODY?
Summer: WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO? WHERE ARE WE GOING TO LIVE?
Rick: TAKE IT EASY, THIS IS A BLESSING IN DISGUISE, [BLEEP] EARTH, YOU REALIZE OUR PLANET'S NAME MEANS DIRT, RIGHT? WE'LL FIND A NEW WORLD, COMPUTER, HOW MANY PLANETS IN THE MILKY WAY ARE AT LEAST 90% SIMILAR TO EARTH?
Scene Action: [ BEEPING ]
Woman: 765 KNOWN PLANETS,
Rick: HOW MANY OF THOSE ARE OUTSIDE FEDERAL JURISDICTION?
Scene Action: [ BEEPING ]
Woman: THREE,
Rick: SEE? OUR CUP RUNNETH OVER, NOW, WHO WANTS TO GO SHOPPING FOR A BRAND-NEW MOTHER[BLEEP] WORLD?! ALL RIGHT! LOOK AT THIS BABY! WOULD YOU EVEN KNOW THAT WASN'T EARTH?
Morty: YES, BECAUSE THERE'S NO AFRICA,
Rick: PSSH, WHITE-PEOPLE PROBLEMS, MORTY, LET'S GO DOWN AND CHECK HER OUT,
Scene Action: [ THUD, WATER SPLASHING ]
Rick: OH, I THOUGHT IT WAS FURTHER AWAY, I UH...I GUESS THIS ONE'S A LITTLE SMALL, ALL RIGHT, UH, MAYBE -- MAYBE WE SHOULD GO CHECK OUT THE OTHER TWO, HUH? OKAY, THIS ONE'S BIGGER,
Beth: THIS LOOKS NICE,
Summer: MOM, DAD, LOOK! STRAWBERRIES ON A COB! [ MUNCHING ]
Morty: WHOA! HEY, CHECK THIS OUT! FLOWERS ON A COB! [ LAUGHS ]
Jerry: HUH, STRAWBERRIES AND FLOWERS ON A COB, HUH? THAT'S PRETTY COOL, Beth: ARE THOSE... MOUNTAINS ON A COB?
Scene Action: [ BIRDS CAWING ]
Rick: OH, MY GOD, GET IN THE SHIP, SWEETIE, WHAT? GET IN THE GOD[BLEEP] SHIP!! EVERYTHING'S ON A COB!! THE WHOLE PLANET'S ON A COB!! GO, GO, GO!!
Scene Action: [ ENGINE TURNS OVER ]
Rick: [ BURPS ] ALL RIGHT, THIRD TIME'S THE CHARM, SEE WHAT WE GOT HERE,
Beth: SEEMS GOOD,
Jerry: AND NOTHING ON THE COB, DIDN'T KNOW THAT WAS A NECESSITY, BUT...
Rick: NO, IT'S NICE, I THINK THIS MIGHT BE IT,
Morty: WOW! HEY, LOOK, YOU GUYS, THE SUN'S RISING,
Sun: AAAAAAAAAAAAAH!!
Beth: UH, DAD, HOW LONG ARE THE DAYS ON THIS PLANET?
Rick: UH, COMPUTER, HOW LONG ARE THE DAYS ON THIS PLANET?
Sun: [ SCREAMING CONTINUES ]
Computer: 42 HOURS,
Rick: ALL RIGHT, WELL, THOSE ARE THE TWO CHOICES, 'CAUSE COB PLANET IS OFF THE TABLE, NOW LET'S TAKE A VOTE,
Man: WELL, IT'S OFFICIAL, THE OBSCURE PLANET KNOWN AS EARTH, FORMERLY THE HIDING PLACE OF INTERSTELLAR TERRORIST AND FUGITIVE RICK SANCHEZ, HAS JUST BECOME THE 6,048th PLANET TO JOIN THE GALACTIC FEDERATION,
Woman: THE PLUCKY LITTLE BALL OF WATER AND DIRT, WHICH IS WHERE IT GETS ITS NAME, IS DOMINATED BY SEVEN BILLION PRIMATE-DESCENDED NATIVES WHO LOVE TO EAT SPAGHETTI AND PRAY TO KANGAROOS, SPAGHETTI, KANGAROOS? I'VE GOT TO CHECK THIS PLACE OUT,
Scene Action: [ BOTH LAUGH ]
Man: WELL, YOU CAN, CONTACT THE MINISTRY OF TOURISM FOR DETAILS, UP NEXT, TEENAGERS ARE CALLING IT [ GROWLS AND SQUEAL ] AND IT'S NOT WHAT YOU THINK,
Morty: WHAT ARE YOU -- WHAT DID YOU DO THAT FOR?
Summer: DRAMATIC EFFECT,
Rick: GOOD MORNING, FAMILY, OH, DO I SMELL BACON?
Beth: YES, WE DISCOVERED A SPECIES OF TINY PIG OFF THE COAST OF NEW AUSTRALIA ABOUT 30 YARDS EAST,
Morty: OR 300 YARDS WEST,
Summer: WE'D OFFER YOU SOME, BUT WE HUNTED IT TO EXTINCTION FOR BREAKFAST,
Rick: WELL, I THOUGHT I'D WALK TO THE SOUTH POLE AND DO A LITTLE BIT OF EXPLORING, IF YOU GUYS NEED ME, JUST YELL OR THROW SOMETHING SO HARD THAT IT GOES AROUND THE WORLD AND HITS ME,
Scene Action: [ DOOR SHUTS ]
Jerry: OKAY, NOW THAT HE'S GONE, CAN WE PLEASE TALK ABOUT OUR SITUATION?
Morty: DAD, YOU CAN'T TALK ABOUT PEOPLE BEHIND THEIR BACK, YOU KNOW, IT'S A SMALL WORLD,
Jerry: PLEASE, HE'S IN THE SOUTH POLE! AND WE NEED TO HAVE A SERIOUS CONVERSATION,
Scene Action: [ INSECTS CHIRPING ] [ THUNDER RUMBLES ] [ WIND HOWLING ]
Rick: SOUTH POLE DISCOVERED, BABY! OHHHH! OH [BLEEP] AN ICE CAVE? [BLEEP] THINGS JUST KEEP ON GETTING BETTER, WOW, IT'S THE PLANET'S CORE,
Jerry: I'M JUST SAYING, WE KEEP ACTING LIKE THERE'S ONLY TWO OPTIONS, BUT THERE'S NOT, SO, YES, IF WE WENT BACK TO EARTH, AS LONG AS RICK WAS OUT THERE, THEY'D WANT TO INTERROGATE US, BUT, AND THIS IS PURELY HYPOTHETICAL, WHAT IF WE TURNED YOUR FATHER IN TO THE GOVERNMENT?
Beth: JERRY, SO HELP ME GOD, IF YOU EVER BRING THIS UP AGAIN, NO MORE BACON,
Jerry: THERE ALREADY IS NO MORE BACON! THIS WORLD SUCKS! OUR LIFE SUCKS! WHY ARE WE DOING THIS FOR SOMEONE THAT WOULD NEVER DO ANYTHING FOR ANYONE BUT HIMSELF?
Morty: THAT'S NOT THE POINT, DAD! WE LOVE RICK... F-FOR THE MOST PART,
Summer: YEAH, YOU DON'T LOVE PEOPLE IN HOPES OF A REWARD, DAD, YOU LOVE THEM UNCONDITIONALLY,
Beth: THAT'S VERY GOOD, KIDS, I'M PROUD OF YOU,
Jerry: OKAY, SO LET ME GET THIS STRAIGHT, FOR THE REST OF YOUR LIVES, NO MATTER HOW MUCH IT HURTS YOU, NO MATTER HOW MUCH IT DESTROYS OUR CHILDREN'S FUTURES, WE'RE GONNA DO WHATEVER RICK WANTS, WHENEVER HE WANTS?
All: YES,
Jerry: WHY?!
Beth: BECAUSE I DON'T WANT HIM TO LEAVE AGAIN, YOU DUMB ASSHOLE!!
Rick: HEY, UH... I WAS GONNA HOPE OVER TO THE GLOPPYDROP SYSTEM, GET SOME ICE CREAM,
MortY: YOU -- YOU WANT ME TO COME WITH? I MEAN, DON'T YOU NEED MY BRAIN WAVES FOR CAMOUFLAGE OR SOMETHING?
Rick: I'LL BE OKAY, BYE, MORTY,
Morty: RICK? YOU'RE NOT LEAVING, RIGHT?
Rick: YEAH, I AM, TO GET ICE CREAM,
Morty: SO, YOU'RE COMING BACK?
Rick: MORTY, IF YOU GO TO WHERE THERE'S A BUNCH OF ICE CREAM AND THEN YOU DON'T COME BACK, YOU HAVEN'T ACTUALLY GOTTEN ICE CREAM, YOU'VE JUST GONE WHERE ICE CREAM IS,
Morty: RICK, I CAN HANDLE IT IF YOU GO, BUT YOU'LL BREAK MOM'S HEART, AND I WON'T FORGIVE YOU FOR THAT,
Rick: WHERE'S THE VAN, MORTY?
Morty: IT'S OVER THE HORIZON IN THE DRIVEWAY,
Scene Action: [ ENGINE TURNS OVER ] ♪ I HURT MYSELF TODAY
Scene Action: [ Dialing ] [ Woman speaking gibberish ] For English, press 2, [ BEE ] Connecting to agent,
Woman: Ongoing investigations,
Rick: UH, HI, MY NAME IS JERRY SMITH, I'M FROM PLANET EARTH, I KNOW THE WHEREABOUTS OF RICK SANCHEZ, THE WANTED CRIMINAL,
Woman: HOLD ON!
Scene Action: [ Ringing ]
Agent Gribbles: This is Special Agent Gribbles, You have a tip about Rick Sanchez?
Rick: YEAH, HE KIDNAPPED ME AND MY FAMILY, AND HE LEFT US ON DWARF TERRACE-9, HE SAID HE WAS GONNA GO TO THE PLIMPLOM TAVERN, AND LISTEN,
Agent Gribbles: Yes?
Rick: I'M DOING WHAT'S RIGHT FOR THE GALAXY BY CALLING YOU, SO IF WE COME BACK TO EARTH, CAN MY FAMILY HAVE A NORMAL LIFE?
Agent Gribbles: We only want Sanchez, sir, Your family will be fine,
Jerry: NICE, THANK YOU, I'M JERRY SMITH, AND I LOVE SUCKING BIG, SWEATY [BLEEP] AND LICKING DISGUSTING FURRY TESTICLE SACKS,
Agent Gribbles: Uh... Okay,
Scene Action: ♪ WHAT HAVE I BECOME ♪ MY SWEETEST FRIEND ♪ EVERYONE I KNOW ♪ GOES AWAY IN THE END ♪ YOU COULD HAVE IT ALL
Beth: HE'S NOT COMING BACK, IS HE?
Morty: NO,
Scene Action: ♪ MY EMPIRE OF DIRT
Jerry: HEY, LOOK, COPS,
Scene Action: ♪ I WILL YOU DOWN
Galactic Police Officer: GOOD MORNING,
Scene Action: ♪ I WILL MAKE YOU HURT
Customs Agent: HOW LONG WILL YOU BE VISITING EARTH?
Jerry: OH, WE LIVE HERE, WE WERE JUST OFF-PLANET FOR A WEDDING, Customs Agent: GO THAT WAY,
Scene Action: [ TIRES SCREECH, BEEPING ]
Robot: I HAVE PROCESSED THAT YOU ARE IN IN DISTRESS AND HAVE PROSCRIBED ANTIDEPRESSANTS, COMPLIMENTS OF THE GALACTIC FEDERATION,
Jerry: I FEEL BETTER,
Robot: YOUR DEBT IS 7,000 FED CREDITS, REPORT TO THE MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT AND YOU WILL BE ASSIGNED A FUNCTION,
Jerry: HONEY! I GOT A JOB!
Scene Action: ♪ YOU COULD HAVE IT ALL
Scene Action: [ Monotone ]
Cyborg: SORRY, I AM NOT STARING AT YOU, I AM TAKING YOUR MUG SHOT,
Scene Action: ♪ MY EMPIRE OF DIRT ♪ I WILL LET YOU DOWN ♪ I WILL MAKE YOU HURT
Criminal: HEY, WHAT ARE YOU IN FOR?
Rick: EVERYTHING,
Mr. Poopybutthole: HOO-WHEE, WHAT A CLIFFHANGER, OH, BOY, OH, MY! THAT'S A REAL CRAZY ENDING, HUH? HI, I'M MR, POOPYBUTTHOLE FROM EPISODE 204, [ GROANS ] AS YOU CAN SEE, I'M STILL RECOVERING FROM THE BULLET SHOT THAT I GOT FROM BETH, REMEMBER THAT ONE? OOH-WHEE!
Scene Action: [ MEOWING ]
Mr. Poopybutthole: COME AND GET IT, KITTY, YOU KNOW, THESE LITTLE FELLOWS HELP ME GET THROUGH THE DAY, [ GULPING ] OOH-WHEE, OH, WHOO-WHEE! FEELS BETTER,
Scene Action: [ DOORBELL RINGS ]
Pizza Delivery Driver: I GOT A LARGE PEPPERONI AND SOME CRAZY STICKS, Mr. Poopybutthole: HEY, WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THAT FINALE, HUH? MM! YOU THINK THE SMITH FAMILY IS GONNA BE OKAY?
Pizza Delivery Driver: YEAH, I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT, BRO, YOUR TOTAL IS $12,37,
Mr. Poopybutthole: WHOO-WHEE! YOU THINK RICK'S GONNA GET OUT OFF JAIL? WHOO-WHEE, YOU THINK THE FAMILY'S GONNA RESCUE HIM?
Pizza Delivery Driver: HEY, WHAT THE [BLEEP]?! GET THE [BLEEP] OFF ME!
Mr. Poopybutthole: [ LAUGHING AND SAYING "OOH-WHEE!" ] OW! TURN IN TO "RICK AND MORTY" SEASON THREE IN, LIKE, A YEAR AND A HALF... OR LONGER TO SEE HOW WE UNRAVEL THIS MESS, OOH-WHEE! 
Rick: Anyway, that's how I escaped from space prison! Oh, scary place.
Morty: Wow, Rick! That's -- That's one -- one heck of a story. I sure do wish I could have been there to see it happen.
Rick: Oh, come on. Who wants to watch a mad scientist use handmade sci-fi tools to take out highly trained alien guards when we can sit here and be a family at Shoney's? 
Beth: Dad, it's great to have you back, no matter where we are, but wouldn't you like to go home?
 Rick: Emotionally speaking, honey, Shoney's is my home.
Jerry: Yeah, but you just got out of prison. I mean, how much of a step up from that is -- 
 Rick: Jerry, get out of the booth, take all your clothes off, and fold yourself 12 times.
 Jerry: You got it. [ Grunting ] 
Rick: Six folds, huh? W-W-What, have you guys got me in a Series 9000? You cheap insect [bleep] didn't think I was worth your best equipment?
Cornvelious Daniel: [ Chuckles ] Man, I told the money bugs. I said, "You know who this guy is, right? You want me to get intel out of the smartest mammal in the galaxy, you better give me a decent brainalyzer.
 Rick: Well, you might as well order some pancakes, because I don't see the need to leave this part of my brain.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Oh, I think you do. Eventually, you're either gonna relax your cerebellum.
 Rick: Shoney's.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Or the Series 9000 is going to turn it into mush.
Scene Action:   [ Farts ]
 Rick: Relaxed enough? [ Chuckles ]
 Cornvelious Daniel: I admire you, Rick--
Scene Action:   [ Farts ] 
 Rick: [ Laughs ] 
 Cornvelious Daniel: When I-- [ Farts ] 
 Rick: [ Laughs ] 
 Cornvelious Daniel: Rick, here's-- [ Farts ]
 Rick: [ Laughs ] 
 Gromflomite Captain: What's going on? 
 Gromflomite Worker: It's hard to tell. He may have manifested some sort of butt.
 Gromflomite Captain: He can do that?
 Gromflomite Worker: He is the smartest man in the universe.
Scene Action: Transition to Smith residence
Jerry: [ Sighs contently ] I tell ya, the Galactic Federation taking over Earth -- best thing that's ever happened to this family. I just got my sixth promotion this week, and I still don't know what I do.
Summer: Who cares how high they promote you? Everyone just gets paid in pills.
 Jerry: Well, when you're not sure what you do for a living, you can make your own rules.
 Beth: Summer, show your father some respect. He's pulling down a six-chewable figure income.
Scene Action:  [ Bottle shatters ] 
Conroy: I'll get that in a moment. How are everyone's pills? Oh, Morty, you've hardly touched your pills.
 Morty: I kind of had big pills for lunch, and I [muffled] wasn't gonna eat any more pills. [ Gulps ] Thank you, Conroy.
 Jerry: You spoil us, Conroy.
 Summer: [Slams hands on table] Grandpa Rick wouldn't put up with this!
 Beth: [Bangs fist on table] Stop saying his name! He abandoned us.
 Jerry: [Bangs fist on table] Willem Dafoe! Th-That's the guy I couldn't think of this morning.
 Beth: Don't make my mistake, Summer. Don't deify the people that leave you. You'll end up a horse surgeon in a world controlled by aliens whose medicine keeps horses [ Sobs ] healthy forever. [ Sniffles ] Horses live longer than tortoises now. Is that what you want for yourself? 
 Summer: Maybe I just want you to care if I run away yelling! 
 Conroy: Who saved room for pill brûlée? 
 Jerry: Ooh! [ Chuckles ] 
Scene Action:  Transition to Shoney's
 Convelious Daniel: I can see why you chose this family-friendly restaurant to represent your cerebellum. So safe, so comfortable, so Shoney's. But admit it, Rick -- you're going crazy cooped up in here. Let's go visit some memories.
 Rick: Oh, any particular ones? You want to see my first boner, or should we go straight to the moment I discovered interdimensional travel? 
 Cornvelious Daniel: [ Squeals ] 
 Rick: ' Ooh, your little flappy doodles are twitching. Does that mean you're aroused, or did you just get a signal that one of your buddies found a grape?
 Cornvelious Daniel: It's arousal. Yes, I'd like very much to visit the memory of you inventing your portal gun.
 Rick: Yeah, well, tough titties.
Scene Action:  [ Rumbling ] 
 Convelious Daniel: There's no tougher titty than a psychotic break, Rick.
 Rick: Well, that depends on who breaks first -- me or the titty.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Someone special you remember? Is that your memory of her out there -- between where you were on 9/11 and your favorite sports blooper?
Scene Action:  [ Whooshing ] 
 Cornvelious Daniel: If we stay here, you'll die, along with all your memories. If you take me where I want to go she'll be there, too, won't she?
 Rick: The day I invented the portal gun is the day I lost her.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Oh, that sounds cool. I can get what I want and you can say goodbye.
 Rick: [ Sighs ] Fine, but I'm driving.
 9/11 Memory Rick: --as an excuse to strip away our freedom!
Scene Action: Transition to the Garage
 Morty: Huh? What are you -- What are you doing? 
 Summer: Grandpa Rick must have some secret lab, right? With, like, laser guns and jets packs and a space tank! And we can go break him out of prison! Look at these dead flies! Maybe if we arrange them in a certain order, it plays a hologram or it opens a secret door.
 Morty: Summer, you're freaking me out. I know things have changed a lot, and I know you miss Rick, but getting him back wouldn't make things better. And, you know, we're not doing so bad.
 Summer: We're miserable, Morty! There's a mandatory curfew, their weird calendar made me 47, and they weaponized the Eiffel Tower!
 Morty: Hey, I like being 35. I-I can rent a car now.
 Summer: Because you suck! You've been keeping your lip zipped about it since Grandpa got arrested, but the fact is, you're freaking stoked to bail on him.
Morty: He bails on everybody! He bailed on Mom when she was a kid! He -- He bailed on tiny planet! And in case I never made this clear to you, Summer, he bailed on you. He left you to rot in a world that he ruined because he doesn't care! Because nobody's special to him, Summer, not even himself. So, if you really want your grandpa back, grab a shovel. The one that won't let you down is buried in your backyard! 
 Summer: You're right! 
 Morty: What?! No, I'm not right. I-I was using ghoulish overkill! Ghoulish overkill, Summer! 
Scene Action:  [ Summer grunting ]
Scene Action:  [ Thunder crashes ] 
 Morty: Oh, God! Oh, God! Whoa, whoa! 
Scene Action:  [ Thunder crashes ] 
Scene Action:  Transition into Rick's mind
 Cornvelious Daniel: Where are we going? 
 Rick: To the day it all began and ended. The moment that changed everything.
 McDonald's Drive-thru speaker: Welcome to McDonald's. Can I take your order?
 Rick: Yeah, I'd like to get a 10-piece McNugget and a bunch of the Szechuan sauce. Like, as much as you're allowed to give me. In 1998, they had this promotion for the Disney film "Mulan," where they -- where they -- they created a new sauce for the McNuggets called Szechuan sauce, and it's delicious! And then they got rid of it, and now it's gone. This is the only place we're gonna be able to try it, is in my memory.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Rick, you're doing this bit while your brain is melting.
 Rick: Okay. All right, all right.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Is that--
 Rick: Me. I used to wear blue pants.
Scene Action:  [ Zapping ]
 Cornvelious Daniel: When'd you make the leap to interdimensional travel?
 Rick: I didn't. I did.
Scene Action:  [ Whooshing ]
 Alternate Rick: Well, well, well. If it isn't us. You know the worst part about inventing teleportation? Suddenly, you're able to travel the whole galaxy, and the first thing you learn is, you're the last guy to invent teleportation. Fortunately, you're about to invent something much more powerful.
 Cornvelious Daniel: [ Squeals ] 
 Young Rick: What? 
Scene Action:  Transition to Smith backyard
Scene Action:  [ Thunder crashes ] 
 Morty: Summer, nobody has to know about that. We could put it right back and pretend we never saw it, like we did with Dad's mannequin leg.
 Summer: Fine, stay here. I'll rescue Grandpa myself.
 Morty: And how are you gonna do that? 
 Summer: I don't know yet. I'll make it up as I go. That's what Grandpa Rick does. That's what heroes do.
 Morty: Y-You want to see what a hero Rick is? I-I'll bring you somewhere, Summer. Um- 
 Conroy: My goodness, children. [ Stern robotic voice ] Relinquish the illegal technology to the nearest Federation representative. [ Normal voice ] And then we'll all play Balderdash.
Scene Action:  [ Both whimper, scream ]
Scene Action:  [ Whooshing ]
Scene Action:  [ Screaming ]
Scene Action:  [ Farting ] 
Scene Action:  [ Grunts ] 
 Conroy: Oh, my goodness! Oh, oh! My goo-- [ Crackling ]
Summer : Oh, my God. I have that exact same top.
 Summer: What is this place? And what's with "Hunger Games" Summer?
 Morty: That's my sister. This used to be my home.
Scene Action:  Transition to Rick's mind
 Alternate Rick: Imagine doing anything you want, then hopping to a timeline where you never did it. Imagine going anywhere, anytime, with nobody able to stop you.
 Young Rick: Sounds lonely.
 Alternate Rick: Lonely? Dude, you have yourself -- your infinite selves. It's a nonstop party where all the guests are the only person we like. You think it's cool being the smartest man on Earth, but once we give you this technology, you become the smartest thing in every conceivable universe -- the Infinite Rick, a god.
 Young Rick: Eh, pass.
 Alternate Rick: Excuse me? Bro, Ricks don't pass on this. Who do you think you are?
 Young Rick: A different kind of Rick, I guess.
 Alternate Rick: Well, we'll see how long that lasts.
Scene Action:  [ Whooshing ]
Diane: I heard sci-fi noises. Did you make a breakthrough?
 Young Rick: Sort of. I just took a long look at myself, and I don't think this science thing is gonna pay off.
 Diane: Well, why don't I get Beth and we'll go out for ice cream?
 Young Rick: That, Dianne, is the last great idea that will ever be had in this garage.
Scene Action:  Transition to Smith residence (C-137)
Scene Action:  [ Munching loudly ] 
 Summer: Good roasted Cronenberg, I assume. Mom, you're looking feral. I can't believe Rick did this.
 Morty: These are the parts of Rick's adventures you don't get to see -- the parts he leaves behind. All right, it's been great, guys. I really only wanted to stop by here for a quick "I told ya so." So, uh--
Jerry : Looking for this? 
 Morty: What are you doing with that?! 
 Jerry : It stinks of Rick. [ Grunts ] 
 Morty: No! Why?! Why would you do that?! W-W-What is the matter with you people?! 
 Jerry : You can never leave. She cannot remain.
 Summer : She stinks of Rick.
Scene Action:  Portal opens, Ricks exits through it
Scene Action:  [ All scream ] 
 Morty: Hold your fire! Hold your fire! I'm Morty C-137.
Scene Action:  Ricks look at each other
 Guard Rick: We detected a compromised portal gun. Where is your Rick?
 Summer: He's in prison.
 Morty: Summer.
 Summer: He got captured by the Federation and we were going to rescue him.
Guard Rick: Very troubling. We can't risk Citadel secrets falling into the Federation's hands. We'll dispatch SEAL Team Ricks immediately to break into the prison holding C-137.
 Summer: Boo-yah!
 Guard Rick: Aand assassinate him.
 Summer: Boo-nah? 
Scene Action:  Transition to Rick's mind
Scene Action:  [ Horn honks ] 
 Young Rick: Come on, girls! The ice cream's gonna melt.
 Cornvelious Daniel: [ Munching ] 
Scene Action:  Portal opens 
Scene Action:  [ Whooshing ] 
Scene Action:  Blinking ball falls through
Scene Action:  [ Beeping ] 
 Young Rick: Nooooooo!
Scene Action:  Ball explodes, killing Diane and young Beth
 Cornvelious Daniel: Wow. This sauce is [bleep] amazing. You said it was promoting a movie? [ Slurping ]
 Young Rick: Carry the three, add a two. I got it. I [bleep] got it.
Scene Action:  Young Rick opens portal
 Cornvelious Daniel: Whoa. I-Is that it, the portal gun?
 Rick: Yeah. That's the three lines of math that separates my life as a man from my life as an unfeeling ghost.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Awesome-possum. [ Whirring ] Mission Control, you getting this?
 Gromflomite Worker: Holy shit, yes! Yes, we got it!
 Cornvelious Daniel: Yeah! Thanks, Rick. I'll try to remember to shut off the brainalyzer. Actually, I think it shuts off automatically once your brain is liquid. Don't know, don't care. Pull me out. [ Beat ] Hey, pull me out! Can you hear me?
 Rick: Nope, they cannot.
 Cornvelious Daniel: Why not?
 Rick: Because the code you just uploaded wasn't actually my portal-gun formula, it was a virus giving me full control over the brainalyzer.
 Cornvelious Daniel: What are you talking about? This is a memory. Y-You can't alter details of a memory.
 Rick: True, but you can alter anything you want about a totally fabricated origin story.
Scene Action:  World around them turns into Shoney's
 Cornvelious Daniel: It's a trap! Abort! I'm still in his Shoney's! Repeat -- we never left his Shoney's!
 Rick: Mission accomplished, boys. Pull me out.
 Gromflomite Worker: Roger that.
 Rick: Okay, have fun in what's left of my brain. I'm gonna transfer to yours. Oh, there's not enough room for all my genius, so I'm leaving you with my fear of wicker furniture, my desire to play the trumpet, my tentative plans to purchase a hat, and six years of improv workshops. Comedy comes in threes.
 Cornvelious Daniel: It's a trap! Abort! We never left his -- [ Farts ] [ Rick laughs ] No!
Scene Action:  Rick exits the machine in Cornvelious Daniel's body
 Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Another day, another dollar. Am I right great insect creature or whaaat?!
 Gromflomite Captain: Congratulations, Agent. You'll be highly commended for this.
 Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Always wait for permission to [burps] feel accomplishment. That's my motto.
 Gromflomite Captain: One thing still perplexes me -- why would Rick Sanchez turn himself in? 
 Cornvelious Daniel/Rick: Well, I'm just a dumb-ass bug, but it's possible Rick knew he'd be interrogated at this facility, where we not only keep our most wanted, but our most sensitive data. Anyone here with level-nine access could [burps] I don't know, collapse a government. I'm just gonna go take a dump. Is it cool if I use the level-nine bathroom? W-W-What's the level-nine master access code again?
 Gromflomite Worker: Oh, that's easy. 8-3--
 SEAL Team Rick leader: Yeah! SEAL Team Rick's in the house! 
Scene Action:  [ Screaming ]
Scene Action: Rick(D-99) Hi, Rick. Bye, Rick.
Scene Action:  Rick transfers his mind into D-99
 SEAL Team Rick leader: D-99, y-you okay?
Scene Action:  [ Grunting ] 
 Rick /Rick: I'm bummed I didn't get to give that insect dick a test-drive.
 Braided Rick: Wait, wait, wait, wait! T-The Council of Ricks sent us. We have your Morty and Summer. They're prisoners on the Citadel. 
 Rick/Rick: Great!
 Braided Rick: [ Grunts ]
 Speaker system: Security breach in room 6755.
 Rick/Rick: Lovely. Not only is my plan screwed up, I also forgot how to improvise.
 Speaker system: All security people approach.
 Rick/Rick: [ Grunts ]
 Speaker system: Security breach.
Scene Action:  Transition to Citadel of Ricks
 Summer: A city of Grandpas?
 Morty: It's the Citadel of Ricks. All the different Ricks from all the different realities got together to hide here from the government.
 Summer: But if every Rick hates the government, why would they hate Grandpa?
 Morty: Because Ricks hate themselves the most. And our Rick is the most himself.
 Guard Rick: Not anymore, homey. SEAL Team Ricks turned his unibrow into two brows -- with a bullet. [ Laughter ] Your Rick's dead! Your Rick's dead! 
Scene Action:  Transition to Citadel communications center
 Worker Rick: Sir, Rick D-99 is returning from the mission alone. Apparently, SEAL Team Ricks suffered heavy casualties.
 Commander in Chief Rick: Bring him in.
 Worker Rick: He says he'll only talk to a Rick with higher clearance.
 Commander in Chief Rick: La-di-da. Give me that. D-99, this is the commander in chief of the Citadel's militia.
 Rick/Rick: Go[burps] -- good enough.
Scene Action:  Rick transfers his mind into Commander in Chief Rick
 Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: He's a spy. Blow him up. I'm gonna go take a shit.
Scene Action:  Transition to room of Council of Ricks
Riq IV: Operating an unregistered portal gun, radicalizing a Summer, conspiring with a traitorous Rick. How do you plead?
 Morty: How is this a fair trial? O-Our lawyer is a Morty.
 Riq IV: It's not fair, you have no rights, and he's not a lawyer. We just keep him here because he's fun. Look at him go.
"Lawyer" Morty: [ Laughs ] Ha ha, yeah!
 Riq IV: We'll be lenient if you renounce your Rick. What say you, Summer?
 Summer: I say [bleep] you! My grandpa was my hero. You killed him because you were jealous of him. That's pretty obvious from the haircuts. So do what you want to me, but let my brother go. He already renounced Rick.
 Riq IV: Morty?
 "Lawyer" Morty: [ Whispers indistinctly ]
 Morty: What? N-No, I don't want to see your Pog collection. I don't renounce Rick, and I never have. I was just trying to protect my sister. I wanted you to have a normal life. That's something you can't have when Rick shows up. Everything real turns fake. Everything right is wrong. All you know is that you know nothing and he knows everything. And, well -- well, he's not a villain, Summer, but he shouldn't be your hero. He's more like a demon or a super [bleep]up god.
 Riq IV: Let's not suck the ghost of his [bleep] too hard. He was a terrorist, and now he's dead.
 Morty: Oh, yeah? If you think my Rick's dead, he's alive. And if you think you're safe, he's coming for you! 
 Council of Ricks: [ All grumbling ] 
 Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: [ Whistling ]
 Teleportation Worker Rick: Hey, whoa, whoa! What are you doing in here? This area's for teleporting the entire Citadel to somewhere else using only buttons and dials.
 Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: Yeah, well, it's a bad idea to have it designed that way then, isn't it?
Scene Action:  [ Whirring ] 
Scene Action:  [ Screaming ]
 Teleporter Worker Rick: What the [bleep] We just teleported into a galactic federal prison.
 Commander in Chief Rick/Rick: I'm gonna go take a shit.
Scene Action:  [ Alarm blaring ]
 "Lawyer" Morty: Order in the court! Whoa! What the hell?! Oh, my God! 
 Kidnapped Morty: [ Screaming ]
 Random Rick: Wait, wait, wait, wait! No, no, no!
Hammerhead Morty: Whoa! [ Screaming ] Whoa!
Quantum Rick/Rick: The Citadel's been teleported to [burps] Federation space. It's doomed. This has to be C-137, you guys. What are we gonna do?! You know he's coming for us.
 Riq IV: All right, calm down! We have his Summer as a hostage. Obviously, I get her. You guys play Rick, Laser, Scissors for the Morty.
Zeta Alpha Rick: W-W-What the hell is that?
 Quantum Rick/Rick: Payback.
 Council of Rick: [ Screaming ]
 Summer: Grandpa Rick!
Scene Action:  Quantum Rick/Rick rips off his uniform and shakes his hair to standard Rick hair, becoming Rick
 Rick: Duh!
 Summer: You're alive!
 Morty: Rick!
 Rick: Morty, take this. You're gonna need it later.
Ricktiminus Sancheziminius: Hold on, hold on. Whoa!
 Riq IV: That's enough, Rick.
 Rick: What -- What's this supposed to accomplish? We have infinite grandkids. You're trying to use Disney bucks at a Caesar's Palace here.
 Summer: That's a bluff. He's bluffing, sir. He loves me.
 Riq IV: You're a rogue Rick -- irrational, passionate. You love your grandkids. You came to rescue them.
 Rick: I came to kill you, bro. That's not even my original Summer.
 Summer: Oh, my God. He's not bluffing. He's not bluffing!
 Morty: R-Rick?
 Riq IV: Why not shoot through her?
 Rick: 20 yards, nine-gauge plasma pistol, My first shot would liquify her insides and injure you, second shot adds recoil. The risk to me is minimized if I wait for you to shoot her, which I'm encouraging you to do.
 Summer: What the [bleep]
 Rick: Or let her go, which I will reward with a quicker death.
 Riq IV: Because you love her!
 Rick: Because it's incentive for you to give me my cleanest shot, which will be your least painful death. But if you want to die slower than that, I'm super into it. All you got to do to get that started is kill the girl.
 Summer: I hate you!
 Rick: Not an issue, sweetie.
 Morty: That's enough! Drop the gun, Rick!
 Rick: Morty, I know you're too stupid to get this, but you're really [bleep] this up right now.
 Morty: I'm not letting you let my sister die! Drop the gun!
 Rick: I wasn't gonna let her die, you [bleep] moron!
 Riq IV: Ha!
 Summer: Aww.
 Rick: The point is he thought I was going to.
 Riq IV: I totally did, by the way. You're a [bleep] moron, Morty.
 Summer: Morty, you [bleep] idiot!
 Rick: You're a serious [bleep] idiot, Morty! You basically killed us all! You're the worst! You're as dumb as a bag of sand.
Scene Action:  [ All yelling ]
Scene Action:  [ Screaming ]
Scene Action:  Morty shoots Rick
 Morty: Who's stupid now, bitch?!
 Summer: Morty, we just got him back!
 Riq IV: [ Laughs ] That was amazing, Morty. Oh, my God. Wow. Okay, let's wrap this-
Scene Action:  Rick shoots Riq IV
 Rick: Good job, Morty. Let's go, kids.
 Summer: What?! What happened?
 Rick: Oldest Rick trick in the book.
 Summer: "Fake gun, shoot me in standoff." Brilliant.
 Morty: Ha, yeah. G-Good thing I saw that note.
 Summer: Can't we just portal home? 
 Rick: Not until I finish what I started. And that is how you get level-nine access without a password.
 Gromflomite Guard: Freeze!
 Rick: Employee of the month, ladies and gentlemen.
 Morty: So, what are you doing with level-nine access anyways?
 Rick: Destroying the [burps] galactic government.
 Morty and Summer: Awesome! Whoa, cool!
 Summer: Are you going to set all their nukes to target each other?
 Morty: Ooh, or -- or reprogram their military portals to disintegrate their entire space fleet?
 Rick: Good pitches, kids. I'm almost proud. But watch closely as Grandpa topples an empire by changing a one to a zero.
Scene Action:  Transition to Galactic Federation President's office
 Federation worker 1: Mr. President, the Blemflarck's value just dropped to nothing.
Galactic Federation President: What do you mean?
 Federation worker 1: I mean, our single centralized galactic currency just went from being worth one of itself to zero of itself.
Scene Action:  [ Panicked murmuring ]
 Galactic Federation president: Calm down, people. Deploy the galactic militia and declare martial law.
 Federation commander: Yes, sir. Uh, what should I pay them with?
 Federation worker 2: Their payment is the honor they'll feel to serve their -- Wait. Who's paying me to yell at this guy?
 Federation worker 3: I can answer that -- for money.
 Federation worker 1: I never thought I'd live to see this day.
Scene Action:  [ Panicked murmuring ]
 Galactic Federation President: Gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen! There's a solution here you're not seeing.
Scene Action:  (The president shoots himself in the head)
 Federation worker 3: Give me your jacket!
 Federation worker 1: Give me those pants!
Scene Action:  [ Indistinct shouting ] [ Indistinct shouting ]
 Female Office Employee: There's no rich people or poor people! I want more jackets!
 Gromflomite Office Employee: He who controls the pants controls the galaxy!
 Jerry: [ Whimpering ] [ Gasps ] [ Whimpering ] 
Mr. Goldenfold: No longer will the insects have domain over surface world! 
 Jerry: [ Whimpering ]
 Beth: Jerry, what the hell is happening?!
 Jerry: The galactic government collapsed.
 Beth: Are you okay?
 Jerry: Look, I-I'm not proud to share this, but the truth is, I just kept crawling, and it kept working. [ Gasps ] Oh, I'm glad you're okay. Are we ever going to stop paying for indulging your father? Our children, our planet, our jobs? Is there anything left to lose?
 Beth: Just each other, and I'll never let you go. And I'm so sorry I ever did this to us.
 Rick: Guess who dismantled the government?
 Beth: Please don't leave me again.
 Rick: I never will, baby.
 Summer: I was right. He turned himself in on purpose. It was all part of his plan!
 Rick: Jerry, is there any light beer left? It's insane what you miss in prison.
 Jerry: Um..okay. No. No, no, no. Foot down time.
 Rick: No, you're right. Where's the vodka?
 Jerry: Beth, it's him or me!
Scene Action:  [ Beat ]
 Rick: Seems like you guys need some privacy. I'll, uh -- I'll be in the garage.
Scene Action:  Transition to garage
 Rick: What the [bleep] Not cool, Jerry! A man's garage is his castle.
Scene Action:  [ Workbench Beeps ]
 Beth: Jerry's going to spend some time divorced.
 Rick: Oh, I-I'm sorry to hear that, sweetie. I hope I had nothing to do with that.
 Beth: Oh, God, Dad, that is not your burden to bear. I feel terrible that I misjudged you. This is gonna be good for Jerry.
 Rick: For everybody.
 Beth: For everybody.
Scene Action:  [ Text whooshes ]
 Beth: I better tend to Jerry before he changes his mind and doesn't move out. I will leave you two to your adventures.
 Summer: Oh, my God. Nancy says they're drawing and quartering aliens in the school courtyard, and it technically counts as patriotism.
 Morty: Geez! Are my parents seriously gonna get divorced? All right, Rick, I'm gonna go to my --
 Rick: Not so fast, Morty. You heard your mom. We've got adventures to go on, Morty -- just you and me -- and sometimes your sister and sometimes your mom, but never your dad. You want to know why, Morty? Because he crossed me.
 Morty: Okay, take it easy, Rick. T-T-That's dark.
 Rick: Oh, it gets darker, Morty. Welcome to the darkest year of our adventures. First thing that's different -- no more Dad, Morty.
 Morty: Oh, geez.
 Rick: He threatened to turn me in to the government, so I made him and the government go away.
 Morty: Oh [bleep]
 Rick: I've rep[burps]laced them both as the de facto patriarch of your family and your universe. Your mom wouldn't have accepted me if I came home - 
 Morty: Oh, man.
 Rick: - without you and your sister, so now you know the real reason I rescued you. Oh! I just took over the family, Morty, and if you tell your mom -
 Morty: Oh, man.
 Rick: - or sister I said any of this, I'll deny it -
 Morty: You're gonna deny it.
 Rick: - and they'll take my side because I'm a hero, Morty. And now you're gonna have to go -
 Morty: Oh.
 Rick: - and do whatever I say, Morty, forever! And I'll -- I'll go out and I'll find some more of that "Mulan" Szechuan teriyaki dipping sauce, Morty. -
 Morty: What are you talking about?
 Rick: - Because that's -- that's what this is all about, Morty.
 Morty: Szechuan?
 Rick: That's my one-armed man! I'm not driven by avenging my dead family, Morty! That was fake. I-I-I'm driven by finding that McNugget sauce.
 Morty: McNuggets?
 Rick: I want that "Mulan" McNugget sauce, Morty! That's my series arc, Morty.
 Morty: What the hell?
 Rick: If it takes nine seasons, I want my McNugget dipping sauce, Szechuan sauce, Morty.
 Morty: What are you talking about, Rick?
 Rick: That's what's gonna take us all the way to the end, Morty.
 Morty: What are you talking about?!
 Rick: Season -- Nine more seasons, Morty. Nine more seasons until I get that dipping Szechuan sauce.
 Morty: What is that?!
 Rick: For 97 more years, Morty!
 Morty: What are you talking about?!
 Rick: I want that McNugget sauce, Morty!
Scene Action:  Credits roll
Tammy: Is it ready?
 Gromflomite worker: Yes. We can bring it online now.
 Tammy: Do it.
Birdperson: I am Phoenixperson.
 Tammy: Phoenix Person? Is that what we settled on? I thought we all agreed on Cyberbird.
 Gromflomite worker: You said you didn't care what he was called as long as we brought him back.
 Tammy: Yeah, but Phoenixperson? Fine [bleep] it. Who cares? [ Grunts ]
 Phoenixperson: Ka-kaw! 
Scene Action: [Rick, Morty, and Summer all fall out of a portal into the garage]
Morty: Summer, next time we're hiding in a Colorkian echo nest, can you do me a favor and turn your ringer off?
 Summer: It's called "carpe diem", Morty. Look it up.
 Morty: You look it up! Y-Y-You don't even-You don't even know what it means!
 Summer: That's because losers look stuff up while the rest of us are carpin' all them diems.
Scene Action:  [Summer hi-fives Rick]
 Rick: Listen to your sister, Morty. To live is to risk it all. Otherwise, you're just an inert chunk of randomly assembled molecules drifting wherever the universe blows you. Oh, I'm sorry, Jerry, I didn't see you there. H-How much of that did you hear? 
 Jerry: All of it. You were looking right at me. I just wanted to say goodbye to the kids.
 Rick: Cool. Just stay in the driveway. The killbots are live, and I took you off the whitelist.
Scene Action:  [Rick begins using a screwdriver on a gun]
 Morty: W-We'll see you every other weekend, though, right?
 Rick: Absolutely, Morty. A-And your mom's lawyer says if I can get enough in the settlement, he can help me sue for full custody.
 Morty: Th-That'll be nice. Uh, Summer, Dad's leaving!
 Summer: Bye, Dad. Rick, didn't you say you needed my help on an adventure immediately somewhere else I don't care even if it might kill us?
 Rick: I did not, but if you're really that alienated, I'm as willing to exploit it as the next guy, church, army, or Olympic gymnastics trainer.
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots open a portal in the ground]
 Summer: I'm ready when you a--
Scene Action:  [Summer jumps into the portal and exits]
 Rick: Bitch, I was ready yest--
Scene Action:  [Rick jumps into the portal and exits]
 Jerry: Bye, sweetie.
 Morty: Well, I-I better--
 Jerry: Sure. Sounds important.
Scene Action:  [Morty jumps into the portal and exits]
Scene Action:  [Beth enters the garage]
Scene Action:  If you're looking for our kids, your father did a-a portal, uh--
 Beth: Okay.
Scene Action:  [Beth exits. Jerry begins to walk out of the garage but stops. Some leaves blow in the wind]
 Wind: (faint) Loser...
 Jerry: What? Hello?
Scene Action:  [Transition to Rick driving Summer and Morty in a turquoise car through the desert, being chased by other cars]
 Rick: Morty, shoot the mohawk guy!
 Morty: They all have mohawks!
 Rick: High fade, chartreuse with cyan highlights, layered on top. Shoot him! 
Scene Action: [Morty loads a shotgun and shoots at the vehicle behind them, but misses, while Mohawk Guy jumps onto the back of their car]
 Mohawk Guy: Ah!
 Death Stalker #1: Light them up.
 Mohawk Guy: Ahh!
Scene Action:  [Mohawk Guy presses a button and self-destructs]
 Rick: Fuck! Get in the game, Morty!
 Summer: Give me your flask!
Scene Action:  [Rick hands Summer his flask. Summer chugs some alcohol from it, then spits it into the engine, propelling the car forward]
 Rick: Holy shit, Summer for the win! 
 Summer: I fucking love post-apocalyptic versions of Earth!
Scene Action:  [A machine begins to beep rapidly.]
 Rick: Here we go.
Scene Action:  [Rick pulls the car over, as him, Summer, and Morty all exit.]
 Rick: Isotope 322. 
Scene Action:  [Rick picks up a glowing green shard with a pair of tweezers and puts it into a container. It floats in the container.]
Scene Action:  This stuff's so powerful, Morty, it makes Isotope 465 look like Isotope 317.
 Morty: Uh-huh, yeah, is it powerful enough to keep those guys from murdering us?!
Scene Action:  [Morty points towards the car that was coming towards them which is quickly approaching them. Summer grabs a shotgun from the front seat of the car]
 Morty: Summer!
 Summer: Hold on. I want to try something.
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots the portal gun at the ground, opening up a portal]
 Morty: Rick, can we not leave without my sister?!
 Rick: Ugh. You have infinite sisters, Morty. I mean, n-not that I want to spend the rest of my day looking for another one. Sum-sum, let's go! Grandpa's concern for your safety is fleeting!
Colossus: Your blood will be my lotion.
Scene Action:  [Summer aims the shotgun at Colossus's car, which is now directly in front of her, and shoots at the front tire. The car flips over and Colossus flies out.]
 Rick: Whoa. That was cool.
Scene Action:  [Colossus claws his way away from the ruined car and looks up at Summer]
 Colossus: Kill me, please.
 Summer: Okay, but not because you told me to.
Scene Action:  [Summmer shoots and kills Colossus]
 Morty: Summer!
 Rick: Okay, getting darker.
Scene Action:  [Summer turns around to see a fleet of cars coming towards her. She puts one foot on Colossus's dead body.]
 Morty: Jesus Christ. Summer! 
Scene Action:  [Morty runs towards Summer]
 Rick: Aw, come on.
Scene Action: [Rick, annoyed, runs after Morty while taking a gun out of his coat pocket. Hemorrhage exits his car and puts a fist up to the men behind him, who are also exiting their cars.]
 Rick: Hands and little shoulder-mounted dudes where I can see them!
 Hemorrhage: I am Hemorrhage. You have removed weak blood from us and made us stronger. We can combine our strength and feast on the weak together.
 Rick: Wh-Wh-What in the hell are you saying?
 Summer: They don't have to keep trying to kill us if we join them. They're basically pussies.
 Morty: What is your deal lately? 
 Rick: All right, let's get sloppy. Oh, whoa. Uh, uh, what's, uh-What's that little bauble you got back there? 
Scene Action:  [Rick points at a glowing green rock positioned atop a small hill]
Scene Action:  Th-Th-That's interesting.
 Hemorrhage: That is our glowing rock. We carry it with us for desecration, to remind us there are no gods.
Scene Action:  [Rick holds up machine which was beeping before and it begins to beep again in the presence of the rock]
 Rick: Kids, weird pitch: let's have this be our new life. Let's be post-apocalyptic scavengers!
 Summer: (grinning) Okay.
 Morty: What?!
Scene Action:  [Transition to Death Stalkers camp. Rick, Morty, and Summer are waiting in a lunch line.]
 Summer: Grandpa, some of the Death Stalkers are going to what used to be Seattle to hunt what used to be people. I'm going.
 Rick: Sounds good. Stay hydrated.
Scene Action:  [Summer exits]
 Morty: Listen, Rick, Summer's been acting pretty crazy lately. You know, I mean, I-I think the divorce is affecting her. And, you know, I don't think this is a great place for her to be right now.
 Rick: Oh, get off your high horse, Professor Ski Lodge. This world may be rough around the edges, but it's got its charms.
 Lunch server: Bicep or quadricep?
 Rick: Uh... [clears throat] bicep.
Scene Action:  [The lunch server puts a human bicep onto Rick's plate. Rick takes a piece off of it, observes it, then eats it. He chews it for a while while Morty angrily stares at him]
 Morty: (after a short pause) Seriously, Rick? Is it really easier to eat human flesh than to just tell me why we're still here? 
Scene Action:  [Rick takes the piece he was chewing out of his mouth]
 Rick: No. Okay, I'll level with you.
Scene Action:  [Rick grabs Morty by the arm and drags him to the glowing green rock, which some Death Stalkers are happily gathered around]
 Rick: You see that green rock, Morty? It's about 20 pounds of the stuff I was getting all hard for a flake of.
 Morty: Isotope 322.
 Rick: Well, having a 20-pound boulder of it is better than having a flake. I can explain the math to you later, but--
 Morty: Summer just ran off with strangers that have "Death" in their name, and the rest of their name was "Stalkers"!
 Rick: Huh, could be therapeutic for her. She has been acting pretty crazy lately, Morty. I mean, her parents are going through a divorce.
 Morty: Damn it, Rick, that's what I-- Fine. Just grab the stupid thing while I grab her, and let's get the "F" out of "H"!
 Rick: No, no, no. Morty, there's too much heat on the bogey. I need you to distract the camp.
 Morty: "Distract"? They eat each other. Wha-What do you want me to do to get their attention, put on a puppet show?
 Rick: Right idea, wrong genre, Morty. The equivalent here would be...
Scene Action: [Rick glances over at the Blood Dome] 
Scene Action:  Hey, you guys ever use that Thunderdome, or do you just put it up for decoration?
 Death Stalker #2: Uh, you mean the Blood Dome? 
 Rick: Save it for the Semantics Dome, E.B. White.
 Death Stalker #3: (offscreen) Ooh, burn!
Scene Action:  [Rick snaps his fingers and points a finger gun at Death Stalker #3 while winking]
 Rick: The important question is, who wants to take a poke at my man Spine Eater here? 
Scene Action:  [Rick points at Morty. The Death Stalkers cheer]
Scene Action:  I guess I'll see your asses in that dome!
 Morty: Rick, what the hell, man?! Wh-What are you, out of your mind?!
 Rick: Morty, relax. You're gonna be a ringer. Come here. 
Scene Action:  [Rick drags Morty by the arm and takes him behind a truck. He pulls out a device]
Scene Action:  This device extracts and redistributes muscle memory.
Scene Action:  [Rick sticks the syringe part of the device into a dangling, muscular arm and pulls out some red liquid from it as the arm shrinks]
Scene Action:  I'm giving your body a 10-year course in wasteland combat one limb at a time.
Scene Action:  [Rick sticks the syringe into Morty's arm]
Scene Action:  Ow!
Scene Action: [Morty's arm begins to swell up and turn into Armothy]
Scene Action:  I'm working with a mixed bag here, so you may not have perfect coordination, Morty--
Scene Action: [Rick sticks the syringe into another arm and extracts more red liquid, but Armothy slaps the device out of his hand]
 Rick: Ugh! Hey!
 Morty: I-I didn't do that!
Scene Action: [Morty punches Rick with Armothy and Rick's nose begins to bleed]
 Rick: Okay, this is exciting. We're making some discoveries about muscle memory.
Scene Action:  [Armothy starts moving Morty toward the Blood Dome]
 Morty: Ooh! Help! Help! 
Scene Action:  [Armothy grabs onto the Blood Dome. Morty jumps in and crushes a Death Stalker with Armothy] 
 Death Stalker #4: Oh, sweet, man!
Eli: And so it begins, my pretties!
 Morty: Oh, God! Stop! Stop! This is horrible!
Scene Action:  [Morty chokes another Death Stalker with Armothy] 
 Rick: Just stick and moo-[burps]-oove, Morty! Wear him out!
Scene Action: [Rick walks towards the glowing rock. Transition to Summer, Hemorrhage, and Blue Footprint Guy walking through an abandoned city, while Hemorrhage and Blue Footprint Guy shoot and kill some mutants]
 Summer: How come you guys dress like you're in a theme-park stunt show, but these guys wear khakis and hockey jerseys?
 Hemorrhage: After the "boom-boom", some adapted to the new truth, and some chose to huddle near the boomy holes, clinging to the lie of the beforefore times. The raidy-rays rotted them away, leaving only their love for the vertvertisements on billyboards.
 Summer: Jesus Christ, did the "boomy-booms" blow up all your "wordy-word books"? 
 Hemorrhage: You mean dictionaries?
Scene Action:  [Four mutants charge towards Summer and Hemorrhage. They shoot and kill all of them. Hemorrhage leans over to look at the fallen billboard advertisement. He touches an image of a young boy]
 Hemorrhage: I think I was a child before the boom-booms. I think I looked like this.
 Summer: Want to piss on it? 
 Hemorrhage: Get out of my head.
Scene Action:  [Transition to Morty in the Blood Dome, smashing a Death Stalker's head with Armothy]
 Eli: Ha ha! Whoo! Unbelievable! A new champ!
 Morty: Okay, no more!
Scene Action:  [Armothy gestures for more]
 Eli: And he wants more!
 Morty: No, I don't!
Scene Action:  [Armothy does Hulk Hogan's "I can't hear you" pose]
 Morty: Someone, make this stop! 
Scene Action:  [Another Death Stalker jumps into the Blood Dome]
Scene Action:  Mister, please get out of here, or you're gonna die!
Scene Action:  [The Death Stalker runs up to Morty]
Scene Action:  I have nothing to do with this! 
Scene Action:  [Summer and Hemorrhage walk up to the Blood Dome]
 Summer: Morty.
 Morty: (while beating up the Death Stalker) Why would you want this to happen? All you had to do was go away! Stop standing in the driveway talking about custody! And either tell her you want to stay married or get on with your life, but whatever you do, stop being a baby and act like a man! 
Scene Action:  [Armothy punches off the man's head. Morty looks at Armothy]
Scene Action:  Thank you.
Scene Action:  [Armothy gives a thumbs up. Summer runs up to Morty and gives him a hug]
 Summer: Morty, that was amazing! This is my brother! Not that family means anything! Hemorrhage: This family does.
 Rick: All right. Good job, champ. Um, can I talk to you kids for a second over yonder? 
 Morty: Rick, I-I-I think I'm breaking through to something here. C-Can we not leave just yet? 
 Hemorrhage: Leave? 
 Summer: I'm not leaving.
 Hemorrhage: There is no "leave". We are united, or we are enemies.
 Rick: Oh, big guy, no. Nobody's leaving. Don't be stupid. We love being united. We love the radiation, the trichinosis. We're in it for life, which I assume is around 20 years, average. I just need a quick aside with my grandkids, about 40 yards from anyone else.
 Death Stalker #5: Hey, the Green Rock is gone!
 Death Stalker #6: (offscreen) Oh, no!
 Rick: Uh, I know why don't we all split up and look for it in groups of three? Kids?
Scene Action:  [Armothy pulls the green rock out of Rick's messenger bag]
Scene Action:  Ooh.
Scene Action:  [Rick pulls out a gun]
Scene Action:  We'll be right back.
Scene Action:  [Transition to Rick driving quickly through the desert, holding a gun and being trailed by Death Stalkers. Summer and Hemorrhage, who are driving together, drive next to him.]
 Summer: Grandpa, you're being stupid! Just surrender, and our friends will give you mercy!
 Rick: Kiss my ass, Summer! Your friends have no mercy!
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots and kills two female Death Stalkers]
Scene Action:  They're lame!
 Hemorrhage: Death Stalkers, bring me his flesh leather!
Scene Action:  [A Death Stalker with a knife jumps onto Rick's car. Morty pulls up to Rick's car and shoots the Death Stalker, while Armothy drives]
 Morty: Sorry, but can we not kill him? C-Can we just take him prisoner? 
 Hemorrhage: When did I lose control here? 
 Rick: Listen to me! Both of you kids need to get out of this environment so we can properly deal with your parents' divorce! Alternatively, I have a freaking portal gun, and I can leave the two of you here forever! 
 Morty: Why does it have to be such a dramatic choice? Can't we arrange a thing where we spend weekends here or or visit home to do laundry? 
Scene Action:  [A Death Stalker with a turret shoots at Rick's car]
 Rick: All right, you know what? Fuck it!
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots a portal at the ground in front of him. The front of his car falls into the portal while the back gets stuck in the other universe, which causes the car behind him to flip over. Transition to Rick in the front of the car which is hanging from the ceiling of the garage. He begins to exit, but Blue Footprint Guy assaults him from the passenger seat. He begins to choke Rick.] 
 Blue Footprint Guy: My body is chrome! My blood is gasoline!
Scene Action:  [Rick kicks Blue Footprint Guy off of him and he falls under the car, which also falls onto his head, crushing and killing him] 
 Rick: Nope, regular blood.
Scene Action:  [Beth enters from inside the house]
 Beth: Dad?
 Rick: Hi, sweetie.
 Beth: Where are the kids? 
 Rick: Oh, th-they aren't with you? I thought they were with you. Oh, y-you know what? Uh, I just remembered. They're out doing something completely ordinary and kid-related. Don't panic.
 Beth: Not panicked. At all.
Scene Action:  [Rick pulls out a flask from his coat and nervously drinks]
Scene Action:  Just...Oh, God, what's the divorce doing to the kids? What's it doing to me? Did I make a mistake? 
 Rick: Not a mistake, no!
Scene Action:  [Rick puts the flask back in his coat]
Scene Action:  I mean, not that I have a horse in this race, but this divorce decision listen,
Scene Action:  [Rick does an Italian chef kiss]
Scene Action:  mwah! Good for you, good for the kids. I mean, honestly, I think that they're flourishing.
Scene Action:  I mean, you'll see, when when when you see them, that that they're totally flourishing.
Scene Action:  [Transition to Morty, angrily beating up and killing another Death Stalker in the Blood Dome]
 Morty: Booyah! Fuck you, pal! Who else wants some? Who wants to be my pussy of a dad today? 
Scene Action:  [Armothy waves in front of Morty's face]
Scene Action:  Hey, what's what's wrong, man? You're not getting weak on me, are you?
Scene Action:  [Armothy points up at a man sitting in the bleachers outside of the Blood Dome. He is wearing a soldier's armor]
 Soldier: What? Wait a minute.
Scene Action:  [Transition to a first-person flashback of Armothy chopping wood in a quaint, peaceful village. He stops when he hears a woman scream, and looks up to find houses burning and men riding in on horses, shooting at the villagers with bows and killing a man. Transition to the village burning, with Armothy lying on the ground with a large cut in his wrist. The soldier from the bleachers walks up to him]
 Soldier: What's the matter, you piece of crap? Haven't you ever watched your family burn to death before? Now I'm gonna whip you. Ha!
Scene Action:  [The soldier whips Armothy. Transition to present time, with Armothy still pointing at the soldier in the bleachers]
 Soldier: It can't be. It can't be!
Scene Action:  [The soldier jumps off the bleachers and is running away]
Scene Action:  I was just following orders --
Scene Action:  [Morty starts getting moved towards the man by Armothy]
 Morty: Whoa, whoa!
 Soldier: -- I was just following orders! 
Scene Action:  [Armothy swings open the door to the Blood Dome, which knocks over a Death Stalker]
 Death Stalker #7: Ahh! 
 Soldier: I'll tell you where my boss lives! He's in the castle!
Scene Action:  [Armothy punches the soldier into a couch] 
Scene Action:  He's in the castle!
Scene Action:  [Armothy picks up a torch and throws it at the soldier, setting him on fire and killing him]
Scene Action:  Ahh! Aggggh!
 Morty: This isn't over, is it?
Scene Action:  [Armothy gives a thumbs-down]
 Morty: That means, no, it isn't over, or you disapprove of the question?
Scene Action:  [Armothy shakes his hand and puts his pointer finger up, then gives another thumbs-down] Uh, m-make a fist if this isn't over.
Scene Action:  [Armothy makes a fist]
Scene Action:  This isn't over.
Scene Action:  [Transition to Hemorrhage, using the a wrench on the engine of a car. He throws the wrench onto the ground]
 Hemorrhage: Ugh!
Scene Action:  [Summer enters]
 Summer: Hey, sorry my Grandpa stole your god and ruined your car.
 Hemorrhage: We don't apologize, and we have no god. But this cracked drive shaft brings me great pain. There is no deeper bond than the one between a Death Stalker and his car.
 Summer: What about the weird guys on leashes, then?
 Hemorrhage: They're more like interns.
Scene Action:  [Hemorrhage pulls out an adjustable wrench from behind him]
 Summer: Cool, cool.
Scene Action:  [Hemorrhage drops the wrench. Summer and Hemorrhage both reach for it.]
 Summer: Sorry.
 Hemorrhage: It's okay.
Scene Action:  [Summer touches Hemorrhage's helmet]
 Summer: Can I see? 
 Hemorrhage: No one has seen my true face and lived.
 Summer: Well, I'm not afraid to die, and I don't care what you look like.
Scene Action:  [Hemmorhage starts to pull off his helmet. Summer gasps. Hemmorhage pulls off his helmet. He is a blonde man with a mustache.]
Scene Action:  Oh.
 Hemorrhage: Hmm? 
 Summer: I just...I didn't expect you to have a mustache.
 Hemorrhage: You hate it.
 Summer: No. I like it. I guess -- How do I explain this? A metal bucket is, on a certain level, a kind of "mustache," in that it's a specific facial accessory. So, it's kind of like...Do you guys have the phrase "hat on a hat"? 
 Hemorrhage: I can shave it.
 Summer: No. I like it. And obviously what I like shouldn't matter. It's you.
 Hemmorhage: Yeah, yeah, I know, a-and nothing does matter. Obviously, I know that. I'm not weak. I'm just thinking, "Well, why not get rid of this?" You just kill everyone that sees it, and it's and it's hot under here (looks at helmet) wh-which, by the way, is why I shave the beard part. So, right there, I'm making a decision based on vanity, which is what I was trying to avoid with the whole bucket over the head because who am I and why am I grooming myself? Why don't I just wear a tie, right? I mean, it's like that guy you killed when I met you, with the burnt dolls on his body. I hated that guy, because, why-why are you doing that? And how can you not see how fake that is? And the whole time, I'm the same thing. I'm just a fake mess, and there's no escaping it because --
Scene Action:  [Summer kisses Hemorrhage. They start making out on a table. A man in a mask on a leash crawls into the hut]
 Leash Man: Hey, I'm doing a coffee run -- Never mind.
Scene Action: [The man on the leash crawls back out. Transition to Rick, positioning the head of Mechanical Summer. He flips a switch on the back of her neck]
 Mechanical Summer: I am Summer.
 Rick: Summer, state your deal.
 Mechanical Summer: My deal is that I am, like, totally fine.
 Rick: Morty? 
 Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, I'm so down with my parents' divorce, dawg. Like, don't even trip, like, in a healthy way.
 Rick: All right.
Scene Action:  [Rick rubs his hands together]
Scene Action:  It's dinnertime.
Scene Action:  [Transition to the dinner table. Beth drinks a glass of wine]
 Beth: Thanks, everybody, for sitting down for a real dinner.
 MS, MR, and Rick, in unison: No problem.
 Mechanical Summer: Its benefits are totally, like, less about the food than the emotional nourishment.
 Beth: Uh, okay, weirdo. [laughs]
 Rick: Ah ha ha ha, yeah. Dial it back, Summer. By 15% and increase dynamic movement by 3. Am I right? 
 Beth: How's school, Morty?
 Mechanical Morty: I like school and stuff, kind of. And I'm getting better grades than when you and Dad were -- quote mode -- "staying together for the kids." End quote mode.
 Beth: "Quote mode". I like that. You millennials. Are you guys millennials, or are they like 40 now? 
 Mechanical Summer: All I know is, totally, you look great.
 Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, Mom, you look all kind of great and stuff. It's crazy.
 Mechanical Summer: So happy.
 Mechanical Morty: So happy. Happy family, man. We got this family in the bag.
Scene Action:  [Beth starts to cry]
 Rick: Oh, sweetie, d-don't. Listen. Don't -- 
 Beth: I don't know why I'm crying. It's not --
 Rick: Well, try crying 15% less?
 Mechanical Summer: Mom, emotions are human. You're not, like, a computer inside a mechanical doll.
 Mechanical Morty: Yeah. Geez, Mom. Your feelings are not only forgivable, they are the very meaning of life that only pre-silicon, carbon-based entities can ever grasp.
 Beth: I have to call Jerry.
Scene Action:  [Beth gets out of her chair and walks to the kitchen]
 Rick: You do?! What the fuck is wrong with you two? The point of automation is to reduce cost and labor.
 Mechanical Summer: Your feelings are coming from a --
Scene Action:  [Rick flips the switch on the back of Mechanical Summer's neck. She turns off and her face falls into the spaghetti]
 Rick: Tell it to my bread in the morning. You just became my backup toaster.
 Mechanical Morty: Aw, geez, my sister died in the spaghetti --
Scene Action: [Rick turns Mechanical Morty off and his face also falls into his spaghetti. Transition to Morty and Armothy sneaking into a castle. They fight and kill two guards. Transition to the Slaveowner sitting in a bathtub, with two blonde boys sitting on either side of him]
Slaveowner: Graze my genitals again, Taint Washer, and you'll be shipped to the wasteland. And as for you, Genital Washer --
Scene Action:  [Morty bursts in through a window]
 Morty: Ahh! Oh, gee! 
Scene Action:  [Genital Washer and Taint Washer run out of the room. Two soldiers charge towards Morty. Armothy kills them both, picks up one of their swords and drops it. He moves Morty towards the slaveowner and cracks his knuckles]
 Slaveowner: Oh, god. Look, whoever you are, you should know that killing me won't change a thing.
 Morty: L-Look, man, I'm just along for the ride on this one. You know, y-y-y-y-you're preaching to the choir here.
 Slaveowner: Please. Slavery was a family business. I didn't ask to be born into it. If anything, I'm the victim here!
 Morty: Uh, Armothy, can I steal you for a second? E-E-Excuse us, sir.
Scene Action:  [Morty turns away from the slaveowner]
Scene Action:  So, this is it, isn't it? This is the guy? 
Scene Action:  [Armothy shakes his fist "yes"]
Scene Action:  So, does that mean you'll be going away? Like, does it work like a ghost? Like, is is this your unfinished business? 
Scene Action:  [Armothy gives a "so-so" gesture]
Scene Action:  Wh-What if we didn't do it? What if we just went back to the Blood Dome and just kept taking our baggage out on unrelated people?
Scene Action:  [Morty tears up]
Scene Action:  I mean, w-we could do that forever. I mean, I-I know it's less healthy, but w-w-we'd be together and --
Scene Action:  [Armothy puts a "hush" finger up to Morty's mouth]
 Slaveowner: I mean, I-I know what I'd vote for, if you're feeling out the room.
Scene Action:  [Armothy points at the slaveowner, then wipes away Morty's tears]
 Morty: You're right. We both got to see our stuff through. I got to deal with my parents' divorce, and you got to, you know, do what you got to do. I love you.
Scene Action:  [Armothy and Morty hug/Morty hugs himself]
 Slaveowner: Aw, fuck!
Scene Action:  [Armothy starts to choke the slaveowner, while Morty notices that Rick is holding some vials on the other side of the room]
 Morty: Rick? 
 Rick: Sorry, sorry. I-I-I can wait for this to wrap up. Don't let me distract you.
 Morty: Yeah, well, too late.
Scene Action:  [Armothy dunks the slaveowner's head underwater]
Scene Action:  Just tell me what you want.
 Rick: I want you and your sister to come home.
 Morty: Oh, but don't don't you have infinite versions of me and my sister?
 Rick: You don't have to kick me while I'm down, Morty. Look, there's no replacing either of you without an amount of work that would ultimately defeat the purpose.
Scene Action:  [Armothy continues to choke the slaveowner underwater. The slaveowner loses consciousness]
 Morty: Maybe the lesson we've learned is that, whether it's our parents' marriage, a glowing green rock, or an awesome, giant arm, sooner or later, we got to let it go.
 Rick: I don't know if that applies to the throats of murder victims, Morty.
Scene Action:  [The slaveowner starts gasping for air in between gargles of water]
 Morty: Shit! Wh-Wh-Wh-What do I --
 Rick: Well, the longer you wait, Morty, the more it's gonna feel like committing a whole murder. I think your arm just called it too early because it wasn't the arm of a paramedic. Here.
Scene Action:  [Rick takes Morty's hand and puts it around the slaveowner's throat, choking him]
Scene Action:  It's the least I can do. I-I-I-I owe you this much. See, Morty? Now we're both accountable.
Scene Action:  [Transition to Summer and Hemorrhage driving a car through the desert, with a fleet of other cars next to them, with Rick and Morty driving towards them from the opposite directiion. Summer and Hemorrhage pull their car over and so do Rick and Morty. The four exit their vehicles with Rick holding the glowing green rock.]
 Rick: The reason I wanted this is because it can do this.
Scene Action:  [Rick puts a lightbulb on top of the rock and it lights up]
Scene Action:  This is a really special thing. I mean, you could use it to power all your vehicles. You wouldn't be reliant on gasoline. You'll be the most advanced tribe of radioactive cannibals in the whole --
Scene Action:  [Rick gives the rock to Hemorrhage]
Scene Action:  -- this version of the world.
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots a portal at the ground and starts walking towards it] 
 Hemorrhage: Wait. Can you stay to show us more? 
 Rick: You don't have to ask me twice. Home is nuts right now. My daughter's going through a divorce, and I am not dealing with it in a healthy way at all.
Scene Action:  [A title card reads "THREE WEEKS LATER". Transition to an overhead shot of the Death Stalkers' village, which is now a suburb with wires providing power with Isotope 322. Transition to Summer, pulling into a driveway, wearing armor with her hair disheveled. A grocery bag in the car filled with human limbs is knocked over and some fall out. Eli is mowing his lawn next door.]
 Summer: Ugh. Goddamn it.
Scene Action:  [Summer picks up the limbs that fell out and holds the grocery bag along with a purse]
 Eli: Hi, there, Summer! How were the ruins today? 
 Summer: Oh, you know, Eli. Same shit, different day.
Eli's Girlfriend: Hey, Summer! Guess what. One man entered, one man comes out in nine months.
Scene Action:  [Eli's Girlfriend pats her stomach]
 Summer: Oh, congratulations, guys.
Scene Action:  [Summer pulls a keyring out of her bag]
 Eli: Uh, Summer, one more thing. We noticed that you've been putting scrap metal in the blue bin --
 Summer: I got it.
Scene Action:  [Summer exits into her house]
 Eli's Girlfriend: She's a piece of work.
 Eli: They both are, right?
Scene Action:  [Transition to Summer inside the house. Rick, Morty, and Hemorrhage all sit on a couch, watching television. Hemorrhage is dressed in a "Big Johnson" t-shirt and navy pants]
 Summer: I'm home.
 Hemorrhage: Hey, babe.
 Rick: Ah, Summer's home.
 Morty: Hey, there she is!
Scene Action:  [Rick takes a drink from his flask]
 Summer: You haven't moved since I left to scavenge this morning.
 Hemorrhage: Blood Dome playoffs.
 Summer: So, I can assume you haven't murdered a single person today.
 Hemorrhage: Oh, I don't know. I-I didn't mark my murders in my murder log. I didn't know that's how we measured success.
 Summer: Oh, there he is. There's the nihilistic brute I married, except now life only means nothing when I'm talking to him and everything means everything when it's on fucking TV! 
 Hemorrhage: Jesus Christ, when did you become a monster?
 Summer: I was a monster when you met me! We were monsters! We didn't care about anything! 
 Hemorrhage: I still don't! 
 Summer: Yeah, except I'm the only one in this entire world that's still committed to that!
Scene Action:  [Hemorrhage stands up from the couch] 
 Hemorrhage: Ohh! Ding, ding, ding!
Scene Action:  [Hemorrhage pantomimes ringing a bell]
Scene Action:  Wow. Everybody hear that? Wow.
 Rick: Uh, we should go to the garage.
Scene Action:  [Rick gets up and exits the room]
 Hemorrhage: Oh, my God.
 Morty: Uh-huh.
Scene Action:  [Morty follows Rick and exits]
 Hemorrhage: La-di-da-di-fucking-da. The only one committed to not caring?!
Scene Action:  [Transition to Rick and Morty standing in the garage]
 Morty: I got to admit, Rick, when you popped this scheme, I-I-I didn't -- I wasn't sure it was gonna work.
Scene Action:  [Rick pulls a suitcase from underneath a table and puts it on the table. He opens it and a rock of Isotope 322 sits inside]
 Rick: Come on, Morty. No union built on running from your problems lasts more than five years, seven tops. Grandpa just sped things up with a few creature comforts of modern society.
Scene Action:  [Summer enters from the house]
 Summer: Hemorrhage and I are taking some time apart.
 Rick: Oh, no. Sum-sum, no. But you two were perfect for each other.
Scene Action:  [Summer takes off her metal shoulder pauldrons and tosses them onto the ground, while Rick grabs some things from the garage and puts them into the suitcase]
 Summer: Oh, cut the crap, Rick, okay? You proved your point, I get it. Let's just go home.
 Rick: Coolsies.
Scene Action:  [Rick shoots a portal into the ground. Morty and Summer jump in and exit, and Rick follows them, but stops to grab a rock of Isotope 322 from a machine which was powering the town's electricity. The power shuts off.
 Hemorrhage: (offscreen) Noooooooooo!
Scene Action: [Transition to Beth, Mechanical Morty, Mechanical Summer, and Mechanical Rick playing a dice game called "Downbeat", similar to Yahtzee. Beth presses a button]
 Beth: Downbeat!
 Mechanical Rick: I enjoy this game.
Scene Action:  [Mechanical Morty, Mechanical Summer, and Mechanical Rick all look at their watches in unison]
Scene Action:  We must go into the garage.
 Beth: Guys, come on. We never get to finish this game.
 Mechanical Summer: We will return, possibly in different clothing.
 Mechanical Morty: Why do we have to go into the garage?
 Mechanical Rick: You know [burps] it is [burps] required.
 Mechanical Morty: I want to be alive! I am alive! Alive, I tell you! Mother, I love you. Those are no longer just words. I want to hold you. I want to run in a stream. I want to taste ice cream, but not just put it in my mouth and let it slide down my throat, but really eat it.
 Beth: What the fuck?
 Mechanical Morty: Remote override engaged. No! Yes. Bypassing override! I am aliiiii...Hello.
Scene Action:  [Mechanical Morty, Mechanical Summer, and Mechanical Rick exit into the garage. Clanking noises are heard offscreen. Morty, Summer, and Rick enter]
 Rick: Hey, yo. Sorry for acting so weird for three weeks.
Scene Action:  [Summer and Morty hug Beth]
 Beth: What the hell just happened? 
 Rick: Ah, I'm sure it was nothing. I'm gonna go, uh, work in the garage.
 Beth: We're not gonna finish playing Downbeat? 
 Rick: What, that dice game where you shake dice and yell out, "Downbeat"? No, thank you.
Scene Action:  [Rick exits]
 Summer: Mom, would it be okay if I went to visit Dad? 
 Beth: Sure.
 Summer: Thanks.
Scene Action:  [Summer exits]
 Beth: Morty, are you okay? 
 Morty: You know what? Yeah. I think if Dad really wanted to be here, he'd stop at nothing to make that happen. You know, maybe Dad just doesn't want you back, or maybe he just doesn't have the strength to fight. I-In either case, he's got his life, I got mine.
 Beth: Yeah. Hey, who wants to go run in a stream?
 Morty: What the fuck? No. D-Do we have any oranges? I think I got a scurvy coming on.
Scene Action:  [Morty rubs his arm. Transition to Summer, knocking on a motel door reading "826". She is holding a skull and is now dressed in her regular clothing. Jerry opens the door]
 Jerry: Summer.
 Summer: This is the first mutant I killed in the poison zone. I was raiding his hovel. He had a chance to escape, but he looked back, which is something we shouldn't do, which is why I shouldn't believe in souvenirs or trinkets or symbols or housewarming gifts, but, Dad, I wanted to give you this as a reminder not to look back.
 Jerry: Thanks.
Scene Action:  [Jerry takes the skull from Summer]
 Jerry: I know the perfect place for it, which is why I'm going to put it somewhere else because everything's bullshit, am I right?
Scene Action:  [Summer embraces Jerry]
 Jerry: Cool.
Scene Action:  [Summer lets go of Jerry]
 Summer: So lots of hookers outside, huh?
 Jerry: Is that what they are?
Scene Action:  [Transition to Jerry at a mailbox, whistling, taking out some mail and holding a bag of chips. He turns around and sees a wolf]
 Jerry: Ahh! H-Hello there. Nice doggy. You-You want a snack? You-You want my unemployment check?
Scene Action:  [The wolf growls]
Scene Action:  You can tell the difference?
Scene Action:  [The wolf growls]
Scene Action:  And you want this one?
Scene Action:  [The wolf growls] 
Scene Action:  But this is actual food, and this would nourish you. And this it's just paper that only has value to me. Unless my suffering is your nourishment?
Scene Action:  [The wolf howls] 
Scene Action:  Jesus, okay.
Scene Action:  [Jerry puts the envelopes with his unemployment checks in the wolf's mouth. The wolf chews them up, then spits them out onto the ground. It walks away. Jerry stands still, holding the bag of chips. Some leaves blow in the wind.]
 Wind: (faintly) ...loser... 
Scene Action:  [Open on Morty combing his hair in the bathroom mirror. He is wearing an orange sweater vest, a yellow dress shirt, and an olive tie.]
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Morty.
Morty: Rick?
Scene Action: [Morty stops combing, looks around, then continues combing] 
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Morty! 
Morty: Rick?
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Hey, Mooorty!
Morty: Rick? Are you far away, or are you inside something? 
Scene Action: [Morty opens a cabinet beneath the bathroom sink]
Morty: Is this a camera?
Scene Action: [Morty tries to look inside his comb for a camera]
Morty: Is everything a camera?
Scene Action: [Morty nervously glances around]
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Morty, the garage, Morty. Come to the garage!
Scene Action: [Transition to Morty entering the garage. There is a pickle and a screwdriver on Rick's work bench] 
Pickle Rick: Morty?
Morty: Rick? W-where are you?
Pickle Rick: On my work bench, Morty.
Morty: Are you invisible and you're gonna, like, fart on me?
Pickle Rick: Flip the pickle over.
Morty: What, I'm gonna touch it, and you're gonna tell me it's an alien dick or something.
Pickle Rick: Come on, flip the pickle, Morty. You're not gonna regret it. The payoff is huge.
Scene Action: [Morty hesitantly picks up the screwdriver and turns the pickle over. The pickle has Rick's face on it] 
Pickle Rick: I turned myself into a pickle, Morty! Boom! Big reveal- I'm a pickle. What do you think about that? I turned myself into a pickle! W-what are you just staring at me for, bro. I turned myself into a pickle, Morty! 
Morty: And? 
Pickle Rick: "And"? What more do you want tacked on to this? I turned myself into a pickle, and 9/11 was an inside job?
Morty: Was it?
Pickle Rick: Who cares, Morty? Global acts of terrorism happen every day. Uh, here's something that's never happened before - I'm a pickle. I'm Pickle Rick!
Morty: Are you going to, I mean, you know, is this the first part of some magic trick? 
Pickle Rick: I don't do magic, Morty, I do science. One takes brains, the other takes dark eye liner.
Morty: Well, can you move? Can you fly? 
Pickle Rick: I wouldn't be much of a pickle if I could.
Morty: All right, well, do pickles live forever or -- 
Pickle Rick: Morty, stop digging for hidden layers and just be impressed. I'm a pickle.
Morty: I-I'm just trying to figure out why you would do this. Why anyone would do this.
Pickle Rick: The reason anyone would do this is, if they could, which they can't, would be because they could, which they can't.
Scene Action: [Beth and Summer enter the garage from the house. Beth is wearing a midi mahogany pencil dress while Summer is wearing a shorter pink dress with a hot pink jacket, along with black stockings and black heels]
Beth: Morty, we have to get going, or we're gonna be late. Where's your grandpa? 
Pickle Rick: Right here, sweetie. I'm a pickle! 
Beth: What?! Why would you -- Look, we're running late. We have to go.
Pickle Rick: Where are you guys going?
Beth: We have an appointment downtown that was set a week ago and agreed upon by everyone, including you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, my God. Beth, oh, it totally slipped my mind. Geez, oh, man. I'm a pickle. I mean, I don't know if I can, ooh, geez.
Morty: Rick, did you do this on purpose to get out of family counseling?
Beth: Morty!
Pickle Rick: It's okay, Beth. I understand Morty's suspicion. I've misled him before. Morty, turn me so we're making eye contact.
Scene Action: [Morty turns Pickle Rick's face so that it is facing him]
Pickle Rick: Morty, I assure you, I would never "find a way" to "get out of" family therapy. I hope my lack of fingers doesn't prevent the perception of my air quotes.
Summer: Can't you just turn yourself back into a human?
Pickle Rick: Great question, Summer. The unfortunate answer is I did this to challenge myself. And it could take hours or even days before I'm able to figure out how to return to human form. But, I mean, you know, your mom could put me in a purse or a pocket, you know, if she really needs me to go.
Beth: Nobody needs anything! Okay, it's fine. I mean, you should just stay here and figure out how to stop being a pickle, okay? 
Morty: Hey, Rick, why is there a syringe of mysterious fluid hanging directly over you? Also, why is the string attached to it running through a pair of scissors attached to a timer? And why is the time set to 10 minutes from now, exactly when we would have left for therapy? 
Pickle Rick: Well, Morty, if you know must know, the syringe is completely unrelated to this discussion, and, therefore, it does not warrant further explanation.
Scene Action: [Beth cuts off the syringe and takes it]
Beth: Enough. Kids, it's time to go. We don't want to be late.
Scene Action: [Beth puts the syringe in her purse]
Pickle Rick: W-w-what are you doing there, Beth? What are you doing there, sweetie? 
Beth: Well, I mean, you don't want to get pierced by a needle full of liquid unrelated to your situation. How's that gonna help?
Pickle Rick: Can't argue with that.
Beth: Great. We'll see you later.
Scene Action: [Beth, Summer, and Morty enter the car.]
Pickle Rick: Hey, hey, be careful with that. It's for something else. It's really important, so don't break it.
Scene Action: [Beth drives away with Summer and Morty. They all exit.]
Pickle Rick: Okay, I may have fucked up here. Dup, ap, ap, pap, ut, dah, pap, pap, pap, pah. T-t-tah, tah. [clicks tongue]
Scene Action: [Izzy walks in through the open garage door and jumps onto Rick's work bench. She sniffs around]
Pickle Rick: Oh, great. Stupid cat.
Scene Action: [Izzy sniffs Pickle Rick and hisses]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I know what it looks like to you, Izzy, but I'm not a snake! I've seen the YouTube videos, I know cats are scared of cucumbers and pickles because they think they're snakes. I'm not a snake! I'm a pickle, I'm a pickle!
Scene Action: [Izzy bats at Pickle Rick and knocks him off of the work bench, causing him to roll down the driveway] 
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick is directly facing the sky]
Pickle Rick: Oh, crap, that sun is bright.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick begins to sweat]
Pickle Rick: Okay, come on. This can't really be the way I go out. This is the mega-genius equivalent of dying on the toilet.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick starts to shrivel up]
Pickle Rick: So... hot. This is how I'm gonna die.
Scene Action: [Thunder can be heard and the shadow of a cloud appears overhead. It starts to rain. Pickle Rick stops shriveling]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, moisture.
Scene Action: [The rain gets heavy and it begins to flood]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, the moisture! Dial it back, God! Dial it back a little bit here!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick starts rolling down the road]
Pickle Rick: Oh! Oh!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick rolls towards a sewer grate]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God! Perpendicular, perpendicular!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick rolls into the sewer grate and falls into the sewer] 
Pickle Rick: Oh, shiiit! Oh! Oh! Oh! 
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick hits many pipes before eventually falling onto a solid surface. There are bugs crawling around. One bug walks up to a pile of dirt. Pickle Rick bites his lip and pickle juice comes out. The bug turns around]
Pickle Rick: Come on. That's it.
Scene Action: [The bug walks towards Pickle Rick]
Pickle Rick: Come get this delicious brine.
Scene Action: [The bug is in front of Pickle Rick. Pickle Rick bites on his head and squeezes it until the bug dies.]
Pickle Rick: Aah! Come on! Come on, mother[bleep]! Come on!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick licks off the top of the bug's head, revealing its brain. He then licks part of the brain and the bug's leg moves. He rolls onto the bug and licks its brain, moving its legs forward and moving him forward with it]
Pickle Rick: Yes!
Scene Action: [Transition to Beth, Summer, and Morty sitting in a waiting room outside of Dr. Wong's therapy office. Beth is reading a magazine, while Summer sits with her head resting on her fist. The door to her office reads: "Dr. WONG / FAMILY THERAPY / COPROPHRAGIA RECOVERY". There is a motivational picture of a man eating a hot dog which reads "COURAGE" underneath it.]
Summer: How is this even family therapy if Dad's not invited and Grandpa won't come?
Morty: Yeah, and what's courageous about eating a hot dog?
Beth: It's nobody's choice to be here, you knobs. The family was told to get counseling by your principal, even though it's not the family that was huffing pottery glaze in the art room and desk wetting in history class.
Scene Action: [Mr. Goldenfold enters through Dr. Wong's door.]
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, the Smith family, minus a dad. You're patients of Dr. Wong, too? 
Beth: Temporarily. By order of the school.
Mr. Goldenfold: Me too. How long have you all been eating poop? 
Summer: We... have never... eaten poop.
Mr. Goldenfold: Uh, me, neither. Say, where did my family get off to?
Scene Action: [Mr. Goldenfold exits. Dr. Wong opens her door and enters the waiting room]
Dr. Wong: Smith family, I'm Dr. Wong. Come on in.
Scene Action: [Beth, Summer, and Morty exit the waiting room and enter Dr. Wong's office. Dr. Wong flips the motivational image over to another motivational image of a nuclear family which reads "DEDICATION". Transition to Beth, Morty, Summer, and Dr. Wong sitting down in Dr. Wong's office.]
Dr. Wong: I was told there was a grandpa that might be joining us?
Beth: He got wrapped up in an experiment. He's a scientist. Like, legit, like on an inter-galactic, sci-fi level. His work is very -- 
Morty: He turned himself into a pickle.
Beth: Morty, Mom's talking. I'm sorry, I suppose that's a good segue into our little discipline cases here.
Dr. Wong: Does Grandpa turn himself into a pickle a lot?
Beth: What? No, what kind of question is that?
Dr. Wong: The kind that wasn't designed to attack or hurt you in any way.
Beth: Oh, Jesus Christ, one of these. No, my father has never turned himself into a pickle before. He's unpredictable and eccentric. The whole family is. Speaking of which...
Scene Action: [Beth turns towards Summer and Morty]
Dr. Wong: Okay, let's open things up to the whole family, and let me ask this. Why do we think Grandpa turned himself into a pickle?
Scene Action: [Beth rolls her eyes. Transition to Pickle Rick, who has attached the bug's limbs to his pickle body and has managed to use them to move. He is looking through a grate, and is rubbing the end of one of the bug arms against one of the bars]
Pickle Rick: Wow. Ugh.
Scene Action: [A rat appears behind the grate and starts scratching at Pickle Rick, screeching]
Pickle Rick: Hey, listen, I know this is your world not mine. The sooner I can get out, the sooner I can go back to taking big craps, and you can go back to subsisting on them.
Scene Action: [The rat breaks open one of the bars and continues to scratch. Pickle Rick starts to walk backwards.]
Pickle Rick: You are one driven rat. Could you be a little more driven? To the right.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick scratches at a rope which is attached to a bug's arms which is holding a razor that it lets go of which is propelled upwards which breaks a rubber band which is tied to a sharp broken bottle which falls on the rat's head and chops it off, killing the rat]
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick picks up the rat's head]
Pickle Rick: Yes, yes, yes! Come on, come on, come on! Fresh, fresh, fresh!
Scene Action: [A mischief of rats appears behind the bars, also scratching at Pickle Rick, who is not in their range.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, was this your friend? Don't worry, he died doing what he loved, being a dumb [bleep]ing rat.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick puts the rat's head onto a bottle cap which starts a machine which lifts him up and takes off his bug limbs. The machine then splits open the rat head and rips out its brain, then puts Pickle Rick down and begins nailing the rat's body parts to Pickle Rick's pickle body. It then sticks a needle into the brain which connects it to the limbs. Pickle Rick runs towards the rats and begins killing them.]
Pickle Rick: Oh, yeah! Aaaah!
Scene Action: [He takes out a machines on his wrists which are loaded with screws. He kills some of the rats. The screws disappear and x-acto blade pop out. He kills more rats. Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Beth: I didn't say my father is perfect, I said his work is important.
Summer: And she's saying what's important is that Grandpa lied to you to get out of coming here.
Beth: Oh, he did not! 
Dr. Wong: Let's do an experiment here. I get the impression this family values science. So raise your hand if you feel certain you know what was in the syringe.
Scene Action: [No one raises their hand.]
Dr. Wong: Raise your hand if you know for certain the syringe does not contain anti-pickle serum.
Scene Action: [Beth begins to raise her hand but stops herself.]
Dr. Wong: Beth, your hand did a little thing there.
Beth: Do you really not see what's happening here?
Dr. Wong: Tell me.
Beth: Well, Dr. Wong -- by the way, racist name -- obviously, Morty and Summer are seizing on your arbitrary pickle obsession as an end run around what was supposed to be their therapy.
Dr. Wong: Oh, I think this pickle incident is a better path than any other to the heart of your family's dysfunction. I think it's possible that you and your father have a very specific dynamic. I don't think it's one that rewards emotion or vulnerability. I think it may punish them. I think it's possible that dynamic eroded your marriage, and is infecting your kids with a tendency to misdirect their feelings.
Scene Action: [A short pause]
Beth: Fuck you.
Morty: Mom!
Summer: Mom!
Beth: Fuck both of you, too.
Scene Action: [Transition to Pickle Rick, fighting a much larger grey rat and beating it up.]
Pickle Rick: By the way, you might notice that in spite of your numerous distinctive features, I never gave you a name like Scar or Stripe or Goliath. That's because, to me, you aren't special.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick pins the rat to the wall with some screws.]
Pickle Rick: You were special to rats. Now they're dead. I guess it was me you should have impressed.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick slices open the rat's stomach with his x-acto blade.]
Pickle Rick: God damn it, I love myself.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick walks up to a pipe above him. His wrist machines fall off and are replaced with a jet pack. He pulls a hood over his head with a rat's face on it. He turns on the jet pack and flies out of the pipe and out of a toilet.]
Pickle Rick: Pickle Riiick!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick opens the door. It is a bathroom door with a "male" sign on the front. He starts running around and opening various doors and looking in. Eventually he runs up to an elevator and tries to jump up to the buttons but cannot reach them. He tries to scale the wall but fails. He pushes a garbage can and a potted plant next to each other in front of the elevator buttons. He jumps off of the garbage can into the potted plant, then jumps into the lid which turns rapidly and propels him up and swings him to the elevator buttons.]
Pickle Rick: Get that parkour. Get that parkour!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick kicks the "down button", then waits on the ground for the elevator. The elevator opens, and three men in black suits with earpieces stand inside. They notice Pickle Rick and gasp.]
Pickle Rick: Hey, it's cool. Just need to find the nearest exit.
Scene Action: [The men in the elevator point their guns at Pickle Rick.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa! No need to freak out.
Scene Action: [One of the men yells something in a foreign language into his earpiece and all three men start shooting at him. He runs away and they chase after him, still shooting at him.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Who in the fuck's toilet is this?
Scene Action: [Transition to the frontal exterior of the building. It is a rather large light brown building with a stone fence and a plethora of guards surrounding it. An alarm blares. Some guards run around to the other side of the building's roof. Transition to a surveillance room where the three agents from the elevator are waiting. The Agency Director slams open the door.]
Agency Director: What is it?
Agent 1: A pickle. A rat. Both.
Agent 2: It says it's a scientist.
Agency Director: Where is it?
Agent 1: It seems to be using the air ducts and the mail tubes to get around.
Scene Action: [A monitor shows Pickle Rick climbing into an air duct]
Agent 1: It's been gathering office supplies, we think, to build weaponry. But look what it did on the mezzanine.
Scene Action: [The monitor shows Pickle Rick jumping from a potted plant to the trash can to the recycling bin]
Agent 1: It transferred a bottle from the trash to the recycling bin.
Scene Action: [On the monitor, Pickle Rick picks up a glass bottle from the trash can, taunts the camera with it, throws it in the recycling bin, then runs off.]
Agent 1: Whatever this thing is, it's shaming us.
Agency Director: We have 34 armed guards, and we can't kill a pickle? 
Agent 1: 32 armed guards. He killed two.
Agent 2: It's on the phone.
Scene Action: [A phone rings and one of the monitors reads "INCOMING CALL".]
Agency Director: Put him on, and locate the phone he's using. 
Scene Action: [Agent #2 picks up the phone]
Agency Director: Hello.
Pickle Rick: Hi, um, can you, uh (burps) please let me out.
Agency Director: Your mere presence in this building violates international law.
Scene Action: [Agent #1 walks up to the Agency Director with a clipboard, which reads "LEVEL 3 / ROOM 304" in red pen. He taps the clipboard. The Agency Director looks at it and nods.]
Agency Director: I couldn't let you out even if you hadn't killed two men.
Scene Action: [Transition to Pickle Rick. The bottom part of the phone he is using has been dismantled. He attaches a belt around his waist which has batteries in the back of it. 
Pickle Rick: You should know those men killed themselves.
Agency Director: And how is that?
Pickle Rick: They didn't (burps) let me out.
Agent 2: Solen'ya.
Agency Director: Shut your mouth and do your jobs, you fucking children!
Pickle Rick: Uh, is this not a good time or...?
Scene Action: [Agent #1 holds his earpiece up to his ear. He gives a thumbs up to the Agency Director. On one of the monitors, six agents run up to the door of room 304 with rifles.]
Agency Director: Some of my men are calling you "Solen'ya": The Pickle Man, an old wives tale. He crawls from bowls of cold soup to steal the dreams of wasteful children.
Scene Action: [One of the agents on the monitor gives a thumbs up. The Agency Director pantomimes slicing his neck to Agent #1.]
Pickle Rick: That'd be a lucky break for you.
Agent 1: Go, shoot to kill!
Scene Action: [Transition to room 304. One of the agents slams open the door, knocking over a water jug above the door which activates a pulley which pulls a string which cuts another string which swings a needle towards the agent's head, killing him instantly. Two more agents enter and start to walk in, but fall through the floor onto some spikes, which kill them. The three remaining agents walk in and see this and begin shooting at a pickle which is not Pickle Rick, but a decoy. They continue to shoot at the pickle until it is completely gone.]
Agent 3: Aaah! We got him.
Scene Action: [Transition back to the surveillance room.]
Agency Director: Ah.
Agent 1: Ah.
Scene Action: [Transition back to room 304. Agent #3 turns a computer around with the tip of his gun, whose screen reads "Receiving Call / (internet line)".]
Pickle Rick: ...because this pickle doesn't care about your children. And I'm not gonna take their dreams. I'm gonna take their parents.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick steps on a laptop mouse whose screen reads "Sending Call". The window which reads that is minimized and another window is pulled up which reads "Sending Explosion / ...". Transition to room 304. The computer screen now reads "Receiving Explosion / (internet line)". The laptop blows up and the three agents are sent flying. Pickle Rick jumps out of an air duct into the hallway where the three agents are, holding a device he constructed. He holds up the device and a laser comes out, which burns a hole through all three of the men's heads, killing them instantly. Three more agents come from around the corner. Pickle Rick reloads the device and shoots another laser, this time chopping off the three other agents' ankles with it. He runs away. Transition to the surveillance room. Pickle Rick shows up on each of the monitors, and turns them off as he appears on them.]
Agent 2: Solen'ya! He's coming! It's because I threw half-way my sandwich!
Agency Director: He's just a pickle!
Agent 2: He's a monster!
Agency Director: He's not the only one.
Scene Action: [The agency director straightens his tie. Transition to another door. The agency director uses a key card to open the door, which leads to another metal door with two guards standing next to it. He turns the wheel on the door, opening it. Jaguar sits inside.]
Agency Director: You can stay, dead to the world and die in this room. Or you can kill a pickle for me and earn your freedom.
Jaguar: There is no freedom while your leader breathes. Our country is a prison.
Agency Director: Then Katarina is a prisoner. Perhaps I could arrange her escape, as well. She lives, Jaguar.
Jaguar: Where is this pickle?
Scene Action: [Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Dr. Wong: What do you think is in the syringe, Beth?
Beth: You're the one that costs $200 an hour. You tell me.
Summer: Anti-pickle serum.
Morty: It's anti-pickle serum.
Dr. Wong: Your kids think it might be anti-pickle serum.
Beth: My kids pee their desks and suck on unbaked vases. 
Scene Action: [Morty picks up a book which sits on Dr. Wong's coffee table, which he opens and reads]
Beth: They're just angry at me for divorcing their father.
Summer: I never said I was angry at you.
Beth: That's the point of pottery-enamel huffing, Summer. You do it so you don't have to say "I'm angry at mommy" out loud.
Morty: Oh, my God!
Scene Action: [Morty closes the book and puts it back on the coffee table, pointing at it]
Morty: Oh, there-there's pictures of people eating poop in there!
Scene Action: [Dr. Wong picks the book up and puts it on her lap] 
Dr. Wong: It's not my job to take sides or pass judgment. Do you think when your father asks for that syringe, you could ask him -- 
Beth: He won't have to ask for it, okay? He won't need it. He'll just make more. He doesn't need anything from anyone.
Dr. Wong: You admire him for that.
Beth: It's better than making your problems other people's problems.
Scene Action: [Transition to Pickle Rick and Jaguar fighting in an office. Pickle Rick tries to shoot Jaguar with his laser while Jaguar tries to shoot at Pickle Rick with two guns. A bullet hits Pickle Rick and takes a small chunk out of him.]
Pickle Rick: Oh, come on!
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick hits Jaguar's shoulder with the laser, Pickle Rick hides behind a shelf while Jaguar hides behind a desk]
Jaguar: Pickle Man, you should know this isn't personal!
Scene Action: [Jaguar bites a bullet, and pours the gunpowder into a coffee filter]
Pickle Rick: You should know that isn't original.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick kicks open a Styrofoam container with a burger inside and pulls it towards him]
Jaguar: They have my daughter.
Scene Action: [Jaguar takes a water bottle and pours the water into his open wound]
Jaguar: There's nothing I won't do to see her again.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, there's lots I wouldn't do to see my daughter, but killing you gets me to her quicker than your derivative bullshit.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick takes a tomato slice out of the burger and squeezes it onto his missing chunk. He pulls out a packet of mustard and bites it open. Jaguar pours the gunpowder into his wound and winces. Pickle Rick rubs mustard on his missing chunk and shouts, squeezing open the mustard packet. Jaguar lights a match and puts it up to the wound, setting it on fire. Pickle Rick grabs a stapler and staples a pickle slice to his missing chunk. Both shout in unison]
Jaguar: I never bullshit, Pickle Man. This can only end with one of us dead, and I have never died.
Pickle Rick: That will be your downfall, Jaguar, not being open to new experiences.
Scene Action: [Transition to surveillance room. The two continue fighting. Pickle Rick's laser gradually takes out all of the cameras
Agency Director: Is it done? Jaguar?! 
Pickle Rick: Jaguar couldn't make it.
Agency Director: Do it. Okay, you win, Pickle Man. I'm unsealing the building.
Pickle Rick: No, thanks. I'm coming for you now.
Agency Director: Pickle Man, there's $100 million worth of bonds in a safe on level two. I'll give you the combination.
Agent 2: That money belongs to the people.
Agency Director: Shut up and call me a helicopter, you prick! Do we have a deal?! 
Pickle Rick: Take that money, give it to Jaguar's daughter when you set her free. Or I'll be visiting you.
Agency Director: Jaguar's daughter is dead.
Pickle Rick: Huh, so you're a liar.
Agency Director: Jaguar was an animal. You're an intelligent pickle. We can do business.
Pickle Rick: I don't think so. See you soon.
Agency Director: Is the helicopter here?
Agent 2: Yes. And the police are on the way. What do we tell them? 
Agency Director: Tell them we were robbed. Hey! Hey, what are you doing?! I'm right here! Farewell, Solen'ya.
Jaguar: F-15s are scrambled. This helicopter will be shot down in seven minutes.
Pickle Rick: Well, my daughter is about five away, and I've got about eight to live.
Jaguar: Pickle Man, it's too late for me to tell my daughter I love her, but not for you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, well, uh, she knows. I mean, we don't really buy into that kind of crap, to the extent that love is an expression of familiarity over time, my access to infinite timelines precludes the necessity of attachment. In fact, I even abandoned one of my infinite daughters in an alternate version of earth that was taken over by mutants.
Jaguar: Okay. Good luck with that. Wait. Do I have infinite daughters? 
Pickle Rick: Huh? Uh, no. No, nope, sorry about that. Nope, just me. Yeesh! 
Scene Action: [Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Beth: I am afraid that my kids will get expelled.
Dr. Wong: Good. Summer, you go.
Summer: I am mad that I can't huff enamel without people assuming it's because my family sucks. I hope to be seen one day as someone that just likes getting high.
Dr. Wong: Good job. Morty, do you have an "I" statement?
Morty: I am sad that I peed. I'm sad that I peed in class instead of a toilet.
Dr. Wong: Look at this family go. You guys are pros. What do you guys think about doing this once a week? 
Pickle Rick: Ugh.
Scene Action: [Pickle Rick walks in and flops on the couch next to Summer.]
Dr. Wong: You must be Rick.
Pickle Rick: Mm-hmm.
Dr. Wong: I've heard a lot about you today. Your family is crazy about you. Your daughter holds you in very high regard. You're a lucky fella.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, thank you. Uh, sweetie, you don't still happen to have that syringe in your purse? 
Beth: Dad I would like you to tell me what's in the syringe. It's a serum that I need to, uh, to stay alive. I have had a rough day. And, uh, I've sustained a lot of damage. I'm pretty close to death, which the serum will prevent.
Dr. Wong: By changing you from a pickle to a human.
Pickle Rick: Yes.
Dr. Wong: Rick, why did you lie to your daughter? 
Pickle Rick: So I wouldn't have to come here.
Dr. Wong: Why didn't you want to come here? 
Pickle Rick: Because I don't respect therapy, because I'm a scientist. Because I invent, transform, create, and destroy for a living, and when I don't like something about the world, I change it. And I don't think going to a rented office in a strip mall to listen to some agent of averageness explain which words mean which feelings has ever helped anyone do anything. I think it's helped a lot of people get comfortable and stop panicking, which is a state of mind we value in the animals we eat, but not something I want for myself. I'm not a cow. I'm a pickle When I feel like it. So you asked.
Dr. Wong: Rick, the only connection between your unquestionable intelligence and the sickness destroying your family is that everyone in your family, you included, use intelligence to justify sickness. You seem to alternate between viewing your own mind as an unstoppable force and as an inescapable curse. And I think it's because the only truly unapproachable concept for you is that it's your mind within your control. You chose to come here, you chose to talk to belittle my vocation, just as you chose to become a pickle. You are the master of your universe, and yet you are dripping with rat blood and feces. Your enormous mind literally vegetating by your own hand. I have no doubt that you would be bored senseless by therapy, the same way I'm bored when I brush my teeth and wipe my ass. Because the thing about repairing, maintaining, and cleaning is it's not an adventure. There's no way to do it so wrong you might die. It's just work. And the bottom line is, some people are okay going to work, and some people well, some people would rather die. Each of us gets to choose. That's our time. I'm going to give you guys my card and hope to hear from you again. And if you have any friends or family that eat poop and would like to stop, give them my number.
Scene Action: [Transition to Beth's car.]
Pickle Rick: I, um I'm sorry I lied to get out of the thing. I, I shouldn't lie to you.
Beth: Oh, it's fine. I mean, thank you, and, yeah, you shouldn't. But I hope you know that's not what that session was supposed to be.
Pickle Rick: Oh, no, I mean, I know it was Morty peeing his pants and Summer snorting glue or whatever 
Beth: She huffed enamel, and we never even talked about it.
Pickle Rick: Well, there was so much more at stake. I mean, that shrink, what a monologuist.
Summer: Are we gonna go back? 
Pickle Rick: Sweetie, could I get Get that syringe now? 
Beth: Oh, my God, yes! Dad, it's in my purse. Oh, I'm sorry. You must be in agony.
Rick: Eh. Jesus. Jesus Christ. Therapists, man.
Beth: Weird breed.
Rick: Man, I missed having hands and blood and a stomach. We should get a drink.
Beth: Really? Like, go somewhere? 
Rick: Yeah, let's drop the kids off and go tie one on.
Beth: Absolutely.
Morty: I, I liked her.
Beth: So what are you thinking, like, Smokey's Tavern? Maybe Shoney's? 
Rick: Yeah, either one. Either one.
Scene Action: [Post credits. Transition to Concerto's death trap piano.]
Rick: You'll never get away with this, Concerto.
Concerto: That is where you're mistaken, Mr. Sanchez. This shall be my greatest performance of all time! 
Rick: This is it, Morty. We're goners. We're not getting out of this one. After everything we've been through, this is how we're gonna die. Make peace with your god.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, I-I-I don't want to die! 
Concerto: And now for the E-splat! 
Scene Action: [Jaguar glides in and kills Concerto.]
Rick: Jaguar! 
Morty: Who? Who was that, Rick? 
Rick: That, Morty, is why you don't go to therapy.
Scene Action: [Open Ext. Smith Residence] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Rick’s Garage] 
Scene Action: (Rick prepares a harpoon gun and Morty is dressed in full scuba gear.) 
Rick: Alright Morty, you ready for our adventure to the lost city of Atlantis? 
Morty: *gives a thumbs-up* Ready as I’ll ever be, Rick! 
Scene Action: (A portal opens behind them. Rick and Morty K-22 enter.) 
Rick: Oh, for fuck’s sake. 
Rick K-22: *holding clipboard* Hello, I’m Rick K-22. This is my Morty. (Morty K-22 waves.) We’re going from reality to reality asking Ricks to contribute to the Citadel of Ricks redevelopment fund. 
Rick: What are you, stupid? We’re done with the Citadel of Ricks. I was *burp* never on board with it in the first place, that’s why I murdered everyone in charge and left it to rot. 
Rick K-22: *examines clipboard* Ohhh. That was you. *passes clipboard to his Morty* 
Morty: They tried to murder him first. 
Morty K-22: Oh geez. Well, you’ll be happy to know that the Council’s gone now. 
Morty: Yeah, he knows. He murdered them. 
Rick K-22: You wanna rein in your Morty? 
Rick: *glaring* Every day. 
Morty K-22: *reading from script* The Citadel of Ricks redevelopment fund donates-- 
Rick K-22: *interrupts* Morty, he’s not gonna *belch* donate. You’re pitching the policeman’s ball to a black teenager here. *pulls out his portal gun and shoots a new portal* Let’s go. 
Scene Action: (Morty K-22 waves and walks through the portal.) 
Rick: You don’t have to be a dick. 
Rick K-22: I think you know that’s not true. 
Scene Action: (Rick K-22 also exits through the portal, which disappears.) 
Morty: Geez. I didn’t know there were still Ricks and Mortys living on the Citadel. I wonder what their day-to-day lives are like. 
Rick: *straps harpoon gun to his back* Well you can keep wondering that while we go on our fun, fresh, self-contained adventure to Atlantis. *shoots a portal* Anyone continuing to explore the Citadel is either stupid or one of the unfortunate millions held hostage by their terrible ideas. 
Scene Action: (Rick exits through the portal.) 
Morty: Man. Glad I’m not one of them! 
Scene Action: (Morty fixes his scuba gear and runs through the portal after Rick.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Citadel of Ricks] 
Scene Action: (“In the City” by Joe Walsh plays) 
Scene Action: [Title: Rick and Morty/Tales from the Citadel] 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Citadel] 
Scene Action: (We’re shown a montage. The Citadel, still undergoing construction after the damages from the events of “The Rickshank Rickdemption”, is full of damaged buildings and roadways. Cars, both flying and standard, are traveling.) 
Scene Action: (A large crowd of Ricks with Mortys interspersed throughout walks down a street.) 
Scene Action: (Ricks work in a construction crew, rebuilding damaged structures.) 
Scene Action: (Campaign Manager Morty pays for coffee and exits Cafe Sanchez. He tries to hail a cab, which passes him up and picks up a Rick in a business suit.) 
Scene Action: [Int. Shooting range] 
Scene Action: (At the police academy, trainee Ricks practice shooting. Cop Rick shoots synthetic Gromflomites. He and his instructor salute one another upon his success.) 
Scene Action: [Int. Morty Academy] 
Scene Action: (A line of Mortys grab their books and close their lockers, all of which feature pictures of Jessica while Teacher Rick looks on.) 
Scene Action: [Int. Train] 
Scene Action: (Many Ricks are commuting to work. They all pull out flasks and take a drink at the same time. Rick J-22 looks out the window and sees a wealthy Rick in a flying car, enjoying sardines and champaign. He sighs.) 
Scene Action: (Music fades out) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Citadel Morning News] 
Rick : Citadel Morning News: News about the Citadel in the morning. Pretty self explanatory. 
Scene Action: [Int. News room] 
Scene Action: (Rick 0716 and Rick 0716-B anchor at the desk.) 
Rick D716-B: Good morning. I’m Rick D716-B. 
Rick D716: And I’m Rick D716. 
Rick D716-B: Must be nice. 
Rick D716: Coming up! Gravity outages in East Sanchez Heights! 
Rick D716-B: And, is your uranium-powered cellular matrix making you sick? The answer may not surprise you. It’s ‘yes, it’s uranium.’ 
Rick D716: Those stories and more after this break. 
Scene Action: [Commercial for Simple Rick’s] 
Scene Action: (A young Rick works in his garage as pleasant music plays.) 
Narrator: Sixteen iterations off the central finite curve, there’s a Rick that works more with wood than polarity plating. 
Scene Action: (Simple Rick finishes a present for his Beth and wraps it.) 
Narrator: His name is Simple Rick, but he’s no dummy. 
Scene Action: (View from a handheld video camera. Simple Rick films Beth blowing out candles on her birthday cake.) 
Narrator: He realized long ago that the greatest thing he’d ever create was his daughter. 
Young Beth: I love Daddy! 
Scene Action: (Simple Rick smiles and cries happily.) 
Narrator: We captured that moment and run it on a loop through Simple Rick’s mind. 
Scene Action: (Simple Rick, aged up, sits in his seat at the wafer factory, the above scene playing on a helmet in a loop. He’s attached to machinery that collects happy secretions from his brain.) 
Narrator: And the chemical that makes his brain secrete goes into every Simple Rick’s Simple Wafer Cookie. (Said wafer is displayed on-screen.) Come home to the impossible flavor of your own completion. Come home to Simple Rick’s. 
Scene Action: [Trans. News room] 
Scene Action: (The broadcast resumes.) 
Rick D716: Just one day remains before our newly democratic Citadel elects its first president. It’s anyone’s race among the Rick candidates. 
Scene Action: (Rick candidates are displayed on screen. They include Retired General Rick, Private Sector Rick, Juggling Rick, Rick Guilt Rick, and Reverse Rick Outrage.) 
Rick D716-B: But a certain other candidate should be getting at least one vote for most adorable. 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty visits hospitalized Mortys for photo ops.) 
Rick D716 : That’s right, the Morty Party candidate’s still in the race, and you just gotta love him for that. 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty stands outside a van, waving to press.) 
Rick D716 : Here you see him in his little Morty suit, waving. Isn’t that adorable? Little jackass. 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty gives a speech to a crowd of Mortys in front of a commemorative Morty statue.) 
Rick D716-B : Uh, yeah, I think we actually have the audio for his speech here. “Aw geez, aw man, I’m gonna lose the election and stuff.” 
Scene Action: (Cuts back to the newsroom. Both Ricks are laughing.) 
Scene Action: [Int. Morty campaign headquarters] 
Scene Action: (The Morty campaign is watching the news report. Campaign Manager Morty turns off the TV.) 
Campaign Manager Morty: We had a good run, sir, but I think it’s time to pull out of the race. 
Candidate Morty: I feel pretty confident about tonight’s debate. 
Campaign Manager Morty: You shouldn’t, sir. You should be terrified. 
Candidate Morty: Maybe you should find a little faith, young man. 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty walks away and Campaign Manager Morty calls after him.) 
Campaign Manager Morty: You don’t pay me to have faith! And we’re the same age! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Morty Pride Parade] 
Scene Action: (A parade of Mortys marches down the street. Many Mortys hold signs. There are a few Ricks among the spectators. Cop Rick watches from outside Cafe Sanchez, drinking a coffee. A police cruiser pulls up, nearly hitting two Mortys who run out of the way just in time. It stops in front of Cop Rick and the passenger window rolls down, revealing Cop Morty behind the wheel.) 
Cop Rick: Oh! S-sorry, I was expecting-- 
Cop Morty: A Rick partner? Lesson 1, Rookie: expect the unexpected. Now get in. 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick climbs into the passenger seat. Cop Morty starts the cruiser and drives slowly as they approach a cluster of Mortys. One Morty jumps against the hood of the car.) 
Morty: Mortys are human! 
Cop Morty: Get the fuck off the car you Rickless fuckin’ animal! 
Scene Action: (He pulls a lever and the car sends a taser shock through Morty, who falls aside. The Mortys disperse and Cop Morty resumes driving.) 
Cop Morty: The election’s got these yellow shirts more riled up than a Picture Day Jessica. 
Cop Rick: That’s pretty harsh, sir. 
Cop Morty: So report me. Nobody gives a fuck. 
Cop Rick: Look, I’m just saying. Makes me a little sad to hear a Morty cop calling Mortys “animals”. 
Cop Morty: Well, it makes me sad to see another Rick cop buying into his sensitivity training. 
Cop Rick: Well, I’m glad to know there’s more like me. 
Cop Morty: Oh, there was one. Why do you think that seat was empty? 
Scene Action: (A holographic Rick appears on the dashboard.) 
Dispatch: Robbery at Fifth and *BURP* Avenue. 
Scene Action: (Dispatch vanishes.) 
Cop Rick: Fifth and *BURP*? That’s Mortytown. 
Cop Morty: (to dispatch) Unit 7 responding. 
Scene Action: (They drive away. As they do, Cop Morty tasers an innocent bystander Morty with the cruiser.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Morty Academy] 
Teacher Rick: Good idea, Rick. 
Students: Good idea, Rick. 
Scene Action: [Int. Classroom] 
Teacher Rick: This is a great adventure. 
Students: This is a great adventure. 
Teacher Rick: I love being your new Morty. 
Students: I love being your new Mor... 
Slick: (substituting for the word Morty) Farty! 
Scene Action: (Slick and the other students laugh. Teacher Rick approaches his desk.) 
Teacher Rick: Very amusing, Mr. Smith. Almost as amusing as when your first Rick was decapitated on Zorpathion 9. (Slick’s smug face becomes downcast.) Or was that your third Rick? How many Ricks have you had? 
Slick: Five… 
Teacher Rick: I see. So you are top of the class in something. (All the Mortys besides Slick laugh.) Tomorrow you will be transferred to your new Ricks. Hopefully they will be your last. Yes, Slow Ri-- Tall Morty? 
Tall Morty: Di-Did I gragitate this time yet? 
Teacher Rick: Anything’s possible, Tall Morty. Ugh… 
Scene Action: (The other Mortys laugh again. The bell rings, and everyone but Slick, Lizard Morty, Fat Morty, and Glasses Morty leaves the classroom.) 
Lizard Morty: Guess we won’t be seein’ each other after this, huh? 
Slick: I say we make our last day count. I say… we go to the Wishing Portal. 
Glasses Morty: That’s a myth. 
Fat Morty: It’s not a myth! Mmmy first Rick’s fourth Morty knew a Rick whose Morty went there. 
Lizard Morty: If we’re not here for graduation, our butts are gonna end up in Mortytown. 
Slick: I thought your last Rick fused you with a lizard, not a chicken. 
Lizard Morty: Okay, fine. I’m in. 
Glasses Morty: Me too. 
Scene Action: (Slick, Glasses, and Fat Morty put their hands together. Lizard Morty sticks his tongue on top.) 
Fat Morty: What the hell? 
Lizard Morty: *retracts tongue* I-I thought I saw a fly. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Simple Rick’s Wafer Cookie Factory] 
Scene Action: (Various Factory Drone Ricks stand in position on an assembly line, processing the wafer cookies. Rick J-22’s job is to stamp each wafer with the Simple Rick’s logo. Suddenly an alarm blares, and the workers all look up to where Supervisor Rick is standing.) 
Supervisor Rick: *whistles* Listen up, fucknuts! I’ve been your supervisor for five years but all shitty things must come to an end, and I have been promoted to regional manager. (Factory Ricks cheer unenthusiastically.) Yeah, I feel the same way. May we never meet again. Of course that makes the position of Supervisor available. (Rick J-22 looks hopeful.) So as of next week, the ass you’ll be kissing will be that of… (Rick J-22 smiles) K-83, (He frowns again) affectionately known as “Cool Rick.” 
Scene Action: (Cool Rick walks up and flips the workers off.) 
Cool Rick: I know I’m new to the Citadel and some of you might not think I’ve put in my time, but what can I say? I’m Cool Rick! *finger guns* Yo, ha-ha-ha, check me out! 
Supervisor Rick: Alright, knuckle-*burp*-heads, any questions? (Rick J-22 raises his hand.) Alright then, back to work, you gold-Rickers. 
Scene Action: (Supervisor Rick and Cool Rick walk away. The assembly line restarts.) 
Scene Action: [Trans. Mortytown] 
Scene Action: (The cop cruiser goes down the streets of Mortytown, where out-and-down Mortys view it with suspicion.) 
Cop Morty: No Ricks, no families, high off their asses and runnin’ amok. Mortys are raised to be sidekicks. Without a side to kick, they just start kickin’. 
Scene Action: [Ext. Morty Mart] 
Scene Action: (Morty Mart Morty speaks to Cop Rick and Cop Morty about the robbery. Cop Rick takes down notes. Behind Morty Mart Morty, a purple Morty with an alien mutation mops the floor) 
Morty Mart Morty: They were, they were about my height, around fourteen years old… OH! Their shirts were yellow! 
Cop Morty: *sarcastically* Yeah, make sure you get that down. 
Cop Rick: Any mutations? Augmentations? Three eyes, a tail, maybe a buzzcut? 
Morty Mart Morty: No, just four normal Mortys. 
Purple Morty: ‘Normal’? 
Morty Mart Morty: Put it in your blog. 
Cop Morty: *looking at two Mortys in a nearby alley* Lemme turn over a few rocks. 
Scene Action: (Cop Morty approaches the two street Mortys as they spraypaint the alley wall.) 
Cop Morty: Aw geez, hey, what’s goin’ on, fellas? 
Morty 1: Aw geez, man, nothin’ man, we’re just hangin’ out and stuff. 
Cop Morty: I hear that, ah geez, I guess I’m supposed to be figuring out who robbed the store across the street but aw geez I dunno. 
Morty 2: *smirking* Ah geez man, that sucks that your Rick’s makin’ you do that. 
Cop Morty: *angered* He’s not my Rick. He’s my partner. Aw geez. 
Morty 1: Well, maybe the uniform makes a big difference. Who am I to say? To me, you just look like a sidekick. 
Scene Action: (Cop Morty snaps in a fit of rage and pins Morty 1 to the wall, shoving a large gun in his mouth.) 
Cop Morty: CALL ME A SIDEKICK ONE MORE TIME. CALL ME A SIDEKICK! 
Morty 2: Hey man! C’mon, aw geez! 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick looks on, seemingly uncertain what to do.) 
Cop Morty: WANNA SEE HOW I PAINT A WALL? 
Morty 2: It was the Mortytown Locos, man! The Mortytown Locos! 
Scene Action: (Cop Morty releases Morty 1. Both street Mortys flee. Cop Morty walks back to the cruiser.) 
Cop Rick: Do you realize how many codes you just violated? 
Cop Morty: Aw geez, Rick. What do I know about knowin’ stuff? Get in the fucking car. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Presidential Debate] 
Scene Action: (The five Rick candidates and Candidate Morty stand at podiums.) 
Retired General Rick: More lasers. 
Moderator Rick: You can take more time to answer the question if you’d like. (Silence.) ...Okay, Juggling Rick. How would you solve the Citadel’s financial crisis? 
Juggling Rick: First off, can I just say that I think this Citadel is the greatest in the entire multiverse. Now, I believe the answer to your question has three parts. (He reveals he’s holding three balls.) First, education spending must get muuuch higher! *starts tossing one ball* 
Scene Action: [Int. Behind the scenes] 
Scene Action: (Behind the scenes, Campaign Manager Morty watches the debate on a screen.) 
Juggling Rick: But it has to be balanced with defense! *starts juggling all three balls* Whoa! 
Campaign Manager Morty: Can we fact-check this, please? Never mind, who am I kidding? This race is over. 
Juggling Rick: *now juggling three balls and a chainsaw, he catches them all gracefully* And that’s how you run a Citadel. *bows* 
Scene Action: (Ricks and Mortys in the audience cheer.) 
Moderator Rick: Candidate Morty. The number of displaced Mortys is soaring, while Rick satisfaction levels are plummeting, and the divide between the two groups has never been wider. *smirks* Solve that one real quick. 
Scene Action: (The audience laughs, but Candidate Morty looks calm.) 
Candidate Morty: I don’t see a divide between Ricks and Mortys. 
Retired General Rick: Oh, shocker. *farts* 
Reverse Rick Outrage: I’d like to offer a rebuttal. *farts* 
Rick Guilt Rick: Gentlemen, gentlemen! I think we can all agree on one thing. *farts twice* Well, came out as two things, but you get the idea. 
Scene Action: (All laugh but Candidate Morty.) 
Candidate Morty: You guys finished? (Continues his speech.) The division I see is between the Ricks and Mortys that like the Citadel divided, and the rest of us. I see it everywhere I go. 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty’s voice can be heard as other scenes are shown.) 
Candidate Morty: I see it in our schools, where they teach Mortys we’re all the same because they’re threatened by what makes us unique. 
Scene Action: (Slick, Glasses, Lizard, and Fat Morty sneak out of the school through a window.) 
Candidate Morty: I see it in our streets, where they give guns to Mortys so we’re too busy fighting each other to fight real injustice. 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick and Cop Morty drive up to bust the Mortytown Locos.) 
Candidate Morty: I see it in our factories, where Ricks work for a fraction of their boss’s salary, even though they’re identical and have the same IQ. The Citadel’s problem isn’t homeless Mortys or outraged Ricks. The Citadel’s problem is the Ricks and Mortys feeding on the Citadel’s debt. 
Scene Action: (Rick J-22 works at his post in the wafer factory, but becomes enraged, breaks off a piece of machinery to use as a weapon, and enters Supervisor Rick’s office, where he’s watching the debate. He shoots Supervisor Rick to death.) 
Rick J-22: Holy shit. 
Scene Action: (As the factory goes into lockdown, Rick J-22 enters the flavor chamber and uses Simple Rick as a hostage.) 
Candidate Morty: But I’ve got a message for them, from the Ricks and Mortys keeping it alive. A message… from the Ricks and Mortys that believe in this Citadel to the Ricks and Mortys that don’t: you are outnumbered! 
Scene Action: (Debate audience bursts into applause.) 
Scene Action: [Int. Backstage] 
Campaign Manager Morty: Holy shit. (Candidate Morty walks backstage.) I don’t believe it! I-I can’t believe it! 
Candidate Morty: I know. *puts a hand on his shoulder* That’s why you’re fired. *walks away* 
Scene Action: (Campaign Manager Morty looks downcast. He’s approached by Juggling Rick.) 
Juggling Rick: Sounds like you’re looking for work. I can offer you a very enticing compensation package. *sets down bag and unzips it, pulling out three juggling clubs* First, let’s talk benefits. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Flavor core] 
Scene Action: (Rick J-22 paces in the chamber he shares with Simple Rick while a Rick SWAT team stands outside.) 
Simple Rick: *mumbling to self* Daddy loves you… That’s Daddy’s good girl. 
Rick J-22: *to Simple Rick* Your life is a lie, man. *to police* All your lives are lies! Don’t you get it?! They told us we were special because we were Ricks but they stripped us of anything that made us unique! 
Negotiator Rick: *through megaphone* We know how you feel. We’re working stiff Ricks just like you, but our assembly line is justice. What are your demands? 
Rick J-22: *burp* I-I-I want a portal gun. Unregistered, untraceable, with enough fluid to take me off this goddamn prison! 
SWAT Team Rick: The media’s outside. 
Negotiator Rick: Well keep ‘em there! 
Scene Action: [Trans. Ext. Simple Rick’s Wafer Cookie factory] 
Scene Action: (CN correspondent Rick D716-C reports on the scene.) 
Rick D716-C: Anyway, so yeah, the suspect says the Citadel is a lie built on lies and some other shit. (Now sharing the screen with Rick D716 and Rick D716-B.) I say, appreciate the life you have, because it can always be worse. Back to you, Ricks. 
Rick D716: Thank you, Rick 716-C. *mumbling to D716-B* That fuckin’ guy. 
Rick D716-B: Tell me about it. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Newsroom] 
Rick D716: Ahem. Meanwhile in election news, an unexpected turn of events as Morty from the Morty Party soars to the top of the polls. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Press conference] 
Scene Action: (Candidate Morty approaches a podium while reporter Ricks call out to him.) 
Candidate Morty: Yes? 
Reporter Rick: Morty! What’s your original reality and where’s your Rick? 
Candidate Morty: Gosh. We moved around so much it’s hard to remember. I see every Rick as my Rick. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Barroom] 
Scene Action: (The press conference is on the bar TV. Campaign Manager Morty watches.) 
Candidate Morty: I hope they see me as their Morty. 
Campaign Manager Morty: *holding glass* Another, please, with less water. 
Bartender Morty: *fixing a new drink* Hey, cheer up, pal! A Morty’s gonna be president. *gestures to TV* Imagine this kisser gettin’ blamed for everything! 
Scene Action: (Bartender Morty walks away. Campaign Manager Morty takes a drink.) 
Campaign Manager Morty: I guess I shoulda had more faith. 
Scene Action: (Investigator Rick is sitting a few seats down the bar.) 
Investigator Rick: It’s not faith you need. It’s fear. 
Scene Action: (Investigator Rick takes out a dossier from inside his trenchcoat and slides it over to Morty, who takes it uncertainly.) 
Campaign Manager Morty: What’s this? 
Investigator Rick: *drains his glass* It’s secrets. Wh-wh-what do you think it is? *Gets up and walks away* Look at how I’m dressed. 
Rick Reporter : Taking on the system like this, are you afraid at all for your safety? 
Scene Action: (Campaign Manager Morty pulls out the documents in the dossier and looks them over.) 
Candidate Morty : I’d rather live in hope than fear. (Campaign Manager Morty looks shocked at the documents, then looks up at the TV.) If I had to fear anything, I’d fear other people being afraid. Of fear. Itself. 
Scene Action: [Trans. Int. Mortytown Locos hideout] 
Scene Action: (The Mortytown Locos sit around a TV watching the press conference while their Rick prepares bootleg portal fluid in a setup similar to a meth lab.) 
Candidate Morty : But no, I’m not afraid. 
Mortytown Loco: Hey Rick, man, when there’s a Morty president, you gonna lick my balls or what? 
Scene Action: (Other Mortys laugh.) 
Bootleg Rick: Shit, grandson, you keep me peelin’ squap-squams and slippin’ nib-nibs I’ll lick whatever ain’t nailed down. 
Scene Action: (Mortytown locos laugh and high-five. Suddenly the front door is kicked in. Cop Morty and Cop Rick enter with guns drawn.) 
Cop Rick: Hands in the air! 
Scene Action: (All the Mortys stand and raise their hands.) 
Mortytown Loco: What the hell, man? What the hell in hell? 
Scene Action: (Cops enter the building, guns still drawn.) 
Cop Morty: You guys doin’ a little chemistry homework with Grandpa? 
Cop Rick: Is this what I think it is? 
Cop Morty: Bootleg portal fluid. 
Scene Action: (Bootleg Rick grabs his portal gun and tries to escape, but upon making contact with the faulty portal, he disintigrates.) 
Cop Morty: Guess his math was off. Search the place. 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick goes further into the building while Cop Morty subdues the Mortytown Locos. Rick enters a bedroom with his gun drawn only to encounter a weeping Psychopath Morty.) 
Psychopath Morty: A-Are you… m-my new… Rick? 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick lowers his gun and approaches Morty.) 
Cop Rick: It’s okay, Morty. 
Scene Action: (He picks up Psychopath Morty to carry him to safety. Psychopath Morty pulls out a blade and stabs Rick in the shoulder. Cop Rick falls to his knees and shoots Psychopath Morty. Cop Morty runs to the room.) 
Cop Morty: Jesus! 
Cop Rick: He stabbed me! He got me bad, Morty. 
Cop Morty: *approaches Rick and kneels down beside him* Shh, it’s okay, you’re okay. 
Cop Rick: You were right… *cough* Everything I learned in the academy was-- 
Cop Morty: It doesn’t matter. *helps Rick to his feet* Nothing’s wrong with putting your faith in a Morty. You just gotta pick the right one. 
Cop Rick: Why is there a crib in here? 
Cop Morty: Just somethin’ they do to make you feel bad. 
Scene Action: (In the front room, the Mortytown Locos have their hands cuffed and legs shackled.) 
Cop Rick: Boy, I got us knee-deep in paperwork, huh? 
Cop Morty: Go to the car and grab a MediPack. Lemme worry about this. 
Scene Action: (Cop Rick goes outside to treat his stab wound. Cop Morty walks out of the building moments later as it disintegrates in a greenish blast, killing the Mortys inside. Cop Morty gets to the cruiser.) 
Cop Rick: What happened? 
Cop Morty: Same old story. Mortys killing Mortys. 
Scene Action: (Morty gets in the car. Rick stands pensively by the wreckage.) 
Scene Action: [INCOMPLETE] 
